 Methylxanthines increase the chances of successful extubation of preterm infants within one week of age. Important neurodevelopmental outcomes are improved by methylxanthine therapy. In any future trials, there is a need to stratify infants by gestational age (a better indicator of immaturity than birth weight). Caffeine, with its wider therapeutic margin, would be the better treatment to evaluate against placebo.
 Methylxanthine is effective in reducing the number of apnoeic attacks and the use of mechanical ventilation in the two to seven days after starting treatment. Caffeine is also associated with better longer term outcomes. In view of its lower toxicity, caffeine would be the preferred drug for the treatment of apnoea.
 In infants with established respiratory distress, a policy of multiple doses of animal derived surfactant extract resulted in greater improvements regarding oxygenation and ventilatory requirements, a decreased risk of pneumothorax and a trend toward improved survival.In infants at high risk of respiratory distress, a policy of multiple doses of synthetic surfactant resulted in greater improvements regarding oxygenation and ventilatory requirements, a decreased risk of NEC and decreased mortality.The ability to give multiple doses of surfactant to infants with ongoing respiratory insufficiency leads to improved clinical outcome and appears to be the most effective treatment policy.
 Implications for practice: nasal CPAP is effective in preventing failure of extubation in preterm infants following a period of endotracheal intubation and IPPV.Implication for research: further definition of the gestational age and weight groups in whom these results apply is warranted. Optimal levels of NCPAP as well as methods of administration remain to be determined.
 Both natural surfactant extracts and synthetic surfactant extracts are effective in the treatment and prevention of respiratory distress syndrome. Comparative trials demonstrate greater early improvement in the requirement for ventilator support, fewer pneumothoraces, and fewer deaths associated with natural surfactant extract treatment. Natural surfactant may be associated with an increase in intraventricular hemorrhage, though the more serious hemorrhages (Grade 3 and 4) are not increased. Despite these concerns, natural surfactant extracts would seem to be the more desirable choice when compared to currently available synthetic surfactants.
 All of the commercially available forms of NRT (gum, transdermal patch, nasal spray, inhaler and sublingual tablets/lozenges) can help people who make a quit attempt to increase their chances of successfully stopping smoking. NRTs increase the rate of quitting by 50 to 70%, regardless of setting. The effectiveness of NRT appears to be largely independent of the intensity of additional support provided to the individual. Provision of more intense levels of support, although beneficial in facilitating the likelihood of quitting, is not essential to the success of NRT.
 Nimodipine can be of some benefit in the treatment of patients with features of dementia due to unclassified disease or to Alzheimer's disease, cerebrovascular disease, or mixed Alzheimer's and cerebrovascular disease. It appears to be well tolerated with few side effects. Data were not available from several trials, a total of more than 500 patients. A meta‐analysis of individual patient data from all trials is desirable. Dementia is a chronic disorder and the short‐term benefits of nimodipine demonstrated in the trials reviewed do not justify its use as a long‐term anti‐dementia drug. New research must focus on longer term outcomes.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the use of nutrient therapy for suspected impaired fetal growth. The studies were too small to assess clinical outcomes adequately.
 One small study found no significant difference between groups treated with OCP, mefenamic acid, low dose danazol or naproxen. Overall, the evidence from the one study is not sufficient to adequately assess the effectiveness of OCP.This review was unable to achieve its stated objectives because of the paucity of the data.
 There is no evidence of benefit in the use of ovulation suppression in subfertile women with endometriosis who wish to conceive.
 Limited evidence suggests that carotid patch angioplasty may reduce the risk of perioperative arterial occlusion and restenosis. It would appear to reduce the risk of ipsilateral stroke and there is a non significant trend towards a reduction in perioperative any stroke rate and all‐cause case fatality.
 There is not enough evidence to support the use of x‐ray pelvimetry in women whose fetuses have a cephalic presentation.
 There is not enough evidence to assess adequately the effectiveness and safety of methylxanthines after acute ischaemic stroke.
 There was improved short‐term postoperative outcome if the peritoneum was not closed. This in itself can support those who opt not to close the peritoneum. Long‐term studies following caesarean section are limited; there is therefore no overall evidence for non‐closure until long‐term data become available.[Note: The 18 citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 The evidence in this review does not support the use of prophylactic maternal phenobarbital administration to prevent PVH in preterm infants or to protect them from neurological disability in childhood. Phenobarbital administration may lead to maternal sedation. If any future trials are carried out, they should measure neurodevelopmental status at follow up.
 Simple advice has a small effect on cessation rates. Assuming an unassisted quit rate of 2 to 3%, a brief advice intervention can increase quitting by a further 1 to 3%. Additional components appear to have only a small effect, though there is a small additional benefit of more intensive interventions compared to very brief interventions.
 Planned caesarean section compared with planned vaginal birth reduced perinatal or neonatal death or serious neonatal morbidity, at the expense of somewhat increased maternal morbidity. The option of external cephalic version is dealt with in separate reviews. The data from this review cannot be generalised to settings where caesarean section is not readily available, or to methods of breech delivery that differ materially from the clinical delivery protocols used in the trials reviewed. The review will help to inform individualised decision‐making regarding breech delivery. Research on strategies to improve the safety of breech delivery is needed.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the use of plasma volume expansion for suspected impaired fetal growth.
 From the evidence available, the routine use of traction (either skin or skeletal) prior to surgery for a hip fracture does not appear to have any benefit. However, the evidence is also insufficient to rule out the potential advantages for traction, in particular for specific fracture types, or to confirm additional complications due to traction use.Given the increasing lack of evidence for the use of pre‐operative traction, the onus should now be on clinicians who persist in using pre‐operative traction to either stop using it or to use it only in the context of a well‐designed randomised controlled trial.
 Chemoprophylaxis or IPT reduces antenatal parasite prevalence and placental malaria when given to women in all parity groups. They also have positive effects on birthweight and possibly on perinatal death in low‐parity women.
 Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection reduces the risk of active TB in HIV positive individuals especially in those with a positive tuberculin skin test. The choice of regimen will depend on factors such as availability, cost, adverse effects, adherence and drug resistance. Future studies should assess these aspects. In addition, trials evaluating the long‐term effects of anti‐tuberculosis chemoprophylaxis, the optimal duration of TB preventive therapy, the influence of level of immunocompromise on effectiveness and combination of anti‐tuberculosis chemoprophylaxis with antiretroviral therapy are needed.
 Prophylactic indomethacin has short‐term benefits for preterm infants including a reduction in the incidence of symptomatic PDA, PDA surgical ligation, and severe intraventricular haemorrhage. However, there is no evidence of effect on mortality or neurodevelopment.
 Preloading prior to traditional high‐dose local anaesthetic blocks may have some beneficial fetal and maternal effects in healthy women. Low‐dose epidural and CSE analgesia techniques may reduce the need for preloading. The studies reviewed were too small to show whether preloading is beneficial for women having regional analgesia during labour using the lower‐dose local anaesthetics or opioids. Further investigation of low‐dose epidural or CSE (including opioid only) blocks, and the risks and benefits of intravenous preloading for women with pregnancy complications, is required.[Note: The five citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 There appears to be no advantage of prophylactic amnioinfusion over therapeutic amnioinfusion carried out only when fetal heart rate decelerations or thick meconium‐staining of the liquor occur.
 Too few patients have been studied in randomised trials to allow conclusions to be drawn about the effect of prostacyclin treatment on survival of people with acute stroke.
 There were few trials, reporting few clinical outcomes and mostly with unclear trial methodology and inadequate follow up. There is not enough evidence to detect clinical benefits of vitamin B6 supplementation in pregnancy and/or labour other than one trial suggesting protection against dental decay. Future trials assessing this and other outcomes such as orofacial clefts, cardiovascular malformations, neurological development, preterm birth, pre‐eclampsia and adverse events are required.
 Regular aerobic exercise during pregnancy appears to improve (or maintain) physical fitness. Available data are insufficient to infer important risks or benefits for the mother or infant. Larger and better trials are needed before confident recommendations can be made about the benefits and risk of aerobic exercise in pregnancy.
 Betastimulants, to facilitate ECV, increased cephalic presentation in labour and birth, and reduced the caesarean section rate in both nulliparous and multiparous women, but there were insufficient data on adverse effects. Calcium channel blockers and nitric acid donors had insufficient data to provide good evidence. At present we recommend betamimetics for facilitating ECV.There is scope for further research. The possible benefits of tocolysis to reduce the force required for successful version and the possible risks of maternal cardiovascular side effects, need to be addressed further. Further trials are needed to compare the effectiveness of routine versus selective use of tocolysis, the role of regional analgesia, fetal acoustic stimulation, amnioinfusion and the effect of intravenous or oral hydration prior to ECV.Although randomised trials of nitroglycerine are small, the results are sufficiently negative to discourage further trials.
 The evidence suggests that anticoagulants are beneficial, without serious adverse effects, for people with NRAF and recent cerebral ischaemia.
 The evidence from two trials suggests that anticoagulant therapy is superior to antiplatelet therapy for the prevention of stroke in people with NRAF and recent non‐disabling stroke or TIA. The risk of extracranial bleeding was higher with anticoagulant therapy than with antiplatelet therapy.
 There is no evidence to date that short‐term testosterone treatment is beneficial in subjects with lower limb atherosclerosis. However, this might reflect limited data rather than the lack of a real effect.
 Prednisolone in low doses (not exceeding 15 mg daily) may be used intermittently in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, particularly if the disease cannot be controlled by other means. The risk of harms needs to be considered, however, especially the risk of fractures and infections. Since prednisolone is highly effective, short‐term placebo controlled trials studying the clinical effect of low‐dose prednisolone or other oral corticosteroids are no longer necessary.
 This review concluded that the data available were too limited to either support or refute the use of routine or selective shunting in carotid endarterectomy. It was suggested that large scale randomised trials between routine shunting versus selective shunting were required. No one method of monitoring in selective shunting has been shown to produce better outcomes.
 Existing trials show little evidence for a specific effect of silver acetate in promoting smoking cessation. The confidence intervals for the ratio are quite wide. However, the upper limit of the confidence intervals for a positive effect equates to an absolute increase in the smoking cessation rate of about 4%. Any effect of this agent is therefore likely to be smaller than nicotine replacement therapy. The lack of effect of silver acetate may reflect poor compliance with a treatment whose rationale is to create an unpleasant stimulus.
 The need for blood transfusions corresponded to one half unit of blood saved per patient. It is doubtful whether this effect is worthwhile. The findings do not suggest a need for further placebo‐controlled trials of the type reviewed here. A large placebo controlled trial enrolling thousands of patients is needed if one wishes to rule out the possibility that a worthwhile effect on mortality might have been overlooked.
 From the studies included in this review, there is some evidence to show that spironolactone is an effective treatment to decrease the degree of hirsutism but there was no evidence for effectiveness for the treatment of acne vulgaris. Studies in this area are scarce and small. Individual study data indicates some superiority of spironolactone over other drugs but results cannot be generalised.
 A short course of corticosteroids following assessment for an asthma exacerbation significantly reduces the number of relapses to additional care, hospitalizations and use of short‐acting beta2‐agonist without an apparent increase in side effects. Intramuscular and oral corticosteroids are both effective.
 In the absence of a meta‐analysis, we feel most weight should be placed on the result of the largest trial. The increase in mortality with steroids in this trial suggest that steroids should no longer be routinely used in people with traumatic head injury.
 Stroke patients who receive organised inpatient care in a stroke unit are more likely to be alive, independent, and living at home one year after the stroke. The benefits were most apparent in units based in a discrete ward. No systematic increase was observed in the length of inpatient stay.
 Pregnant women need the support of caring family members, friends, and health professionals. While programs which offer additional support during pregnancy are unlikely to prevent the pregnancy from resulting in a low birthweight or preterm baby, they may be helpful in reducing the likelihood of antenatal hospital admission and caesarean birth.
 In patients with CT‐proven primary supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage, surgery added to medical management reduces the odds of being dead or dependent compared with medical management alone, but the result is not very robust. Hence, further randomised trials to identify which patients benefit from surgery and to evaluate less invasive methods are indicated.
 The use of ergometrine‐oxytocin as part of the routine active management of the third stage of labour appears to be associated with a small but statistically significant reduction in the risk of PPH when compared to oxytocin for blood loss of 500 ml or more. No statistically significant difference was observed between the groups for blood loss of 1000 ml or more. A statistically significant difference was observed in the presence of maternal side‐effects, including elevation of diastolic blood pressure, vomiting and nausea, associated with ergometrine‐oxytocin use compared to oxytocin use. Thus, the advantage of a reduction in the risk of PPH, between 500 and 1000 ml blood loss, needs to be weighed against the adverse side‐effects associated with the use of ergometrine‐oxytocin.
 Evidence of the effects of baclofen, progabide, sodium valproate, or THIP for people with antipsychotic‐induced TD is inconclusive and unconvincing. Any possible benefits are likely to be outweighed by the adverse effects associated with their use.
 One small study reports some preliminary evidence that benzodiazepines may have some effect in neuroleptic induced tardive dyskinesia. Inconclusive results from other studies means routine clinical use is not indicated and these treatments remain experimental.
 The effects of calcium‐channel blockers for antipsychotic induced tardive dyskinesia are unknown. Their use is experimental and should only be given in the context of well designed randomised clinical trials.
 Tardive dyskinesia remains a major public health problem. The clinical effects of older cholinergic drugs are unclear, as too few, too small studies leave many questions unanswered. Cholinergic drugs should remain of interest to researchers and currently have little place in routine clinical work. However, with the advent of new cholinergic agents now used for treating Alzheimer's disease, scope exists for more informative trials. If these new cholinergic agents are to be investigated for treating people with tardive dyskinesia, their effects should be demonstrated in well‐designed, conducted and reported randomised trials.
 There is no strong evidence to support the everyday use of any of the agents included in this review. All results must be considered inconclusive and these compounds probably should only be used within the context of a well‐designed evaluative study.
 Small trials of limited quality suggest that vitamin E may protect against deterioration of TD. There is no evidence that vitamin E improves symptoms of this problematic and disfiguring condition once established. New and better trials are indicated in this under‐researched area, and, of the many adjunctive treatments that have been given for TD, vitamin E would be a good choice for further evaluation.
 There is not enough evidence to assess whether theophylline or its analogues, e.g. aminophylline, are safe and improve outcome in people with acute ischaemic stroke.
 Parenteral high dose methotrexate and sulfasalazine are the only two agents with well demonstrated published efficacy in psoriatic arthritis. The magnitude of the effect seen with azathioprine, etretinate, oral low dose methotrexate and perhaps colchicine suggests that they may be effective but that further multicentre clinical trials are required to establish their efficacy. Furthermore, the magnitude of the improvement observed in the placebo group strongly suggests that uncontrolled trials should not be used to guide management decisions in this condition.
 Overall, thrombolytic therapy appears to result in a significant net reduction in the proportion of patients dead or dependent in activities of daily living. This overall benefit was apparent despite an increase both in deaths (evident at seven to 10 days and at final follow up) and in symptomatic intracranial haemorrhages. Further trials are needed to identify which patients are most likely to benefit from treatment and the environment in which thrombolysis may best be given in routine practice.
 Training health professionals to provide smoking cessation interventions had a measurable effect on the point prevalence of smoking, continuous abstinence and professional performance. The one exception was the provision of nicotine gum or replacement therapy, which did not differ between groups.
 In patients with viable lesions, evidence from trials of adults suggests albendazole may reduce the number of lesions. In trials of non‐viable lesions, seizure recurrence was substantially lower with albendazole, which is counter‐intuitive. It may be that steroids influence headache during treatment, but further research is needed to test this.
 Early repeated CSF tapping cannot be recommended for neonates at risk of, or actually developing, post‐hemorrhagic hydrocephalus.
 Parasitological cure can be achieved by single oral dose of nitroimidazole. Further research should focus on developing effective partner treatment strategies to prevent reinfections and reduce trichomoniasis prevalence.
 Antibiotic treatment led to a statistically significant reduction of children with AOM experiencing pain at two to seven days compared with placebo but since most children (82%) settle spontaneously, about 20 children must be treated to prevent one suffering from ear pain at two to seven days. Additionally, antibiotic treatment led to a statistically significant reduction of tympanic membrane perforations (NNTB 33) and contralateral AOM episodes (NNTB 11). These benefits must be weighed against the possible harms: for every 14 children treated with antibiotics, one child experienced an adverse event (such as vomiting, diarrhoea or rash) that would not have occurred if antibiotics had been withheld. Antibiotics appear to be most useful in children under two years of age with bilateral AOM, or with both AOM and otorrhoea. For most other children with mild disease, an expectant observational approach seems justified. We have no trials in populations with higher risks of complications.
 Metronidazole, given as a single dose, is likely to provide parasitological cure for trichomoniasis, but it is not known whether this treatment will have any effect on pregnancy outcomes. The cure rate could probably be higher if more partners used the treatment.
 From these limited data there is no evidence of benefit or disadvantage of tubal surgery versus no treatment or alternative treatments. Likewise there is no evidence of advantage or disadvantage of using microsurgery over standard techniques; laparoscopic approach over laparotomy; the use of CO2 laser; or electrocoagulation over thermocoagulation. Randomised controlled trials should be undertaken to determine the role of tubal surgery versus no treatment or alternative treatments. Randomised controlled trials should be undertaken to determine the role at tubal surgery of magnification, laparoscopic approach, the use of lasers or electrocoagulation.
 There are few trials assessing the effectiveness of ursodeoxycholic acid. There is insufficient evidence to justify its routine use in cystic fibrosis.
 Doxapram can improve blood gas exchange over the first few hours of treatment. Newer techniques such as non‐invasive ventilation may prove to be more effective, although there is no randomised trial evidence to this effect.
 Topical imidazole appears to be more effective than nystatin for treating symptomatic vaginal candidiasis in pregnancy. Treatments for seven days may be necessary in pregnancy rather than the shorter courses more commonly used in non‐pregnant women.[Note: The seven citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 Frail older people confined to institutions may sustain fewer hip fractures if given vitamin D with calcium. Vitamin D alone is unlikely to prevent fracture. Overall there is a small but significant increase in gastrointestinal symptoms and renal disease associated with vitamin D or its analogues. Calcitriol is associated with an increased incidence of hypercalcaemia.
 Vitamin K administered to women prior to very preterm birth has not been shown to significantly prevent PVH in preterm infants or improve neurodevelopmental outcomes in childhood.
 The evidence for a 14% relative reduction in preterm birth for zinc compared with placebo was primarily represented by trials involving women of low income and this has some relevance in areas of high perinatal mortality. There was no convincing evidence that zinc supplementation during pregnancy results in other useful and important benefits. Since the preterm association could well reflect poor nutrition, studies to address ways of improving the overall nutritional status of populations in impoverished areas, rather than focusing on micronutrient and or zinc supplementation in isolation, should be an urgent priority.
 Existing evidence is limited and dated. Any possible benefit of adjunctive beta‐blocker therapy is obscured by poor reporting within the studies. Important data on quality of life, satisfaction, healthy days, and cost are not available. Considering the number of people whose symptoms are only partially responsive to antipsychotic medication, well conducted and reported trials in this area could be justified.
 Based on this single large multicentre study, pergolide reduces 'off' time and improves impairment and disability due to Parkinson's disease whilst allowing a reduction in levodopa dose. This is at the expense of dopaminergic adverse events. Further trials are required to compare pergolide with the newer dopamine agonists.
 Although pergolide is superior to bromocriptine in reducing motor impairments and disability, no firm conclusions regarding levodopa‐induced motor complications can be reached. Levodopa dose reduction, adverse events and withdrawals from treatment are similar for the two agonists. The small advantage of pergolide in efficacy does not take into account its additional cost compared with bromocriptine.
 Evidence available to date does not allow any firm conclusions to be drawn concerning the effectiveness of ambulatory domicilary oxygen therapy in patients with COPD. Further studies are required in order to understand the role of ambulatory oxygen in the management of patients with COPD on long‐term oxygen therapy. These studies should separate patients who desaturate from those who do not desaturate.
 Amphotericin B has been disfavoured in several of the trials through their design or analysis, or both. Since intravenous amphotericin B is the only antifungal agent for which an effect on mortality has been shown, and since it is considerably cheaper than fluconazole, it should be the preferred agent.
 There is moderate evidence that antibiotics provide a small benefit for clinical outcomes in immunocompetent primary care patients with uncomplicated acute sinusitis. However, 80% of participants treated without antibiotics improved within two weeks. Clinicians need to weigh the small benefits of antibiotic treatment against the potential for adverse effects at both the individual and general population level.
 Antibiotic prophylaxis should be offered to those undergoing surgery for closed fracture fixation.
 There is limited evidence to support the use of antibiotics in acute bronchitis. Antibiotics may have a modest beneficial effect in some patients with acute bronchitis though data on subsets of patients who may benefit more from treatment is lacking. However, the magnitude of this benefit needs to be considered in the broader context of potential side effects, medicalisation for a self limiting condition, increased resistance to respiratory pathogens and cost of antibiotic treatment.
 This review fails to demonstrate a clear overall benefit from prophylactic antibiotic treatment for preterm labour with intact membranes on neonatal outcomes and raises concerns about increased neonatal mortality for those who received antibiotics. This treatment cannot therefore be currently recommended for routine practice. Further research may be justified (when sensitive markers for subclinical infection become available) in order to determine if there is a subgroup of women who could experience benefit from antibiotic treatment for preterm labour prior to membrane rupture, and to identify which antibiotic or combination of antibiotics is most effective.[Note: The 17 citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 There is no evidence of benefit from antibiotics for the common cold or for persisting acute purulent rhinitis in children or adults. There is evidence that antibiotics cause significant adverse effects in adults when given for the common cold and in all ages when given for acute purulent rhinitis. Routine use of antibiotics for these conditions is not recommended.
 Compared with control, there was no evidence of benefit from long‐term anticoagulant therapy in people with presumed non‐cardioembolic ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack, but there was a significant bleeding risk.
 Antifibrinolytic therapy causes a greater reduction in objective measurements of heavy menstrual bleeding when compared to placebo or other medical therapies (NSAIDS, oral luteal phase progestagens and ethamsylate). This treatment is not associated with an increase in side effects compared to placebo, NSAIDS, oral luteal phase progestagens or ethamsylate. Flooding and leakage and sex life is significantly improved after tranexamic acid therapy when compared with oral luteal progestogens but no other measures of quality of life were assessed. No study has used resource cost as an outcome. There are no data available within randomised controlled trials which record the frequency of thromboembolic events.
 There is accumulating evidence that taking vitamin E or beta carotene supplements will not prevent or delay the onset of AMD. There is no evidence with respect to other antioxidant supplements, such as vitamin C, lutein and zeaxanthin, or any of the commonly marketed multivitamin combinations. Although generally regarded as safe, vitamin supplements may have harmful effects and clear evidence of benefit is needed before they can be recommended. People with AMD should see the related Cochrane review 'Antioxidant vitamin and mineral supplements for slowing the progression of age‐related macular degeneration' written by the same review team.
 People with AMD may experience delay in progression of the disease with antioxidant vitamin and mineral supplementation. This finding is drawn from one large trial conducted in a relatively well‐nourished American population. The generalisability of these findings to other populations is not known. Although generally regarded as safe, vitamin supplements may have harmful effects. A systematic review of the evidence on harms of vitamin supplements is needed.
 There were no randomised trials comparing either anticoagulants or antiplatelet drugs with control, thus there is no evidence to support their routine use for the treatment of extracranial internal carotid artery dissection. There were also no randomised trials that directly compared anticoagulants with antiplatelet drugs and the reported non‐randomised studies did not show any evidence of a significant difference between the two.
 The evidence suggests that artemisinin drugs are effective and safe for treating uncomplicated malaria. There is no evidence from randomised trials that one artemisinin derivative is better than the others. In areas where there is mefloquine resistance, combination therapy with an artemisinin derivative appears to improve sustained parasite clearance compared with either drug alone.This review summarizes trials up to 1999. For the reasons in the 'What's new' section, this review will no longer be updated.
 There were no randomised trials comparing either anticoagulants or antiplatelet drugs with control, thus there is no evidence to support their routine use for the treatment of extracranial internal carotid artery dissection. There were also no randomised trials that directly compared anticoagulants with antiplatelet drugs and the reported non‐randomised studies did not show any evidence of a significant difference between the two.
 The evidence suggests that artemisinin drugs are effective and safe for treating uncomplicated malaria. There is no evidence from randomised trials that one artemisinin derivative is better than the others. In areas where there is mefloquine resistance, combination therapy with an artemisinin derivative appears to improve sustained parasite clearance compared with either drug alone.This review summarizes trials up to 1999. For the reasons in the 'What's new' section, this review will no longer be updated.
 There is moderate evidence suggesting that back schools, in an occupational setting, reduce pain, and improve function and return‐to‐work status, in the short and intermediate‐term, compared to exercises, manipulation, myofascial therapy, advice, placebo or waiting list controls, for patients with chronic and recurrent LBP. However, future trials should improve methodological quality and clinical relevance and evaluate the cost‐effectiveness of back schools.
 Antibiotic treatment can eradicate bacterial vaginosis in pregnancy. The overall risk of PTB was not significantly reduced. This review provides little evidence that screening and treating all pregnant women with bacterial vaginosis will prevent PTB and its consequences. When screening criteria were broadened to include women with abnormal flora there was a 47% reduction in preterm birth, however this is limited to two included studies.
 Compression increases ulcer healing rates compared with no compression. Multi‐component systems are more effective than single‐component systems. Multi‐component systems containing an elastic bandage appear to be more effective than those composed mainly of inelastic constituents. Two‐component bandage systems appear to perform as well as the 4LB. Patients receiving the 4LB heal faster than those allocated the SSB. More patients heal on high‐compression stocking systems than with the SSB. Further data are required before the difference between high‐compression stockings and the 4LB can be established.
 There was some evidence that CDP‐choline has a positive effect on memory and behaviour in at least the short to medium term. The evidence of benefit from global impression was stronger, but is still limited by the duration of the studies. Further research with CDP‐choline should focus on longer term studies in subjects who have been diagnosed with currently accepted standardised criteria, especially Vascular Mild Cognitive Impairment (VaMCI) or vascular dementia.
 Community mental health team management is not inferior to non‐team standard care in any important respects and is superior in promoting greater acceptance of treatment. It may also be superior in reducing hospital admission and avoiding death by suicide. The evidence for CMHT based care is insubstantial considering the massive impact the drive toward community care has on patients, carers, clinicians and the community at large.
 Caffeine appears to have similar short‐term effects on apnea/bradycardia as does theophylline although caffeine has certain therapeutic advantages over theophylline. Theophylline is associated with higher rates of toxicity. The possibility that higher doses of caffeine might be more effective in extremely preterm infants needs further evaluation in randomized clinical trials.
 Calcium antagonists reduce the risk of poor outcome and secondary ischaemia after aneurysmal SAH. The results for 'poor outcome' depend largely on a single large trial of oral nimodipine; the evidence for other calcium antagonists is inconclusive. The evidence for nimodipine is not beyond all doubt, but given the potential benefits and modest risks of this treatment, oral nimodipine is currently indicated in patients with aneurysmal SAH. Intravenous administration of calcium antagonists cannot be recommended for routine practice on the basis of the present evidence. Magnesium sulphate is a promising agent but more evidence is needed before definite conclusions can be drawn.
 There is no clear evidence that surveillance colonoscopy prolongs survival in patients with extensive colitis. There is evidence that cancers tend to be detected at an earlier stage in patients who are undergoing surveillance, and these patients have a correspondingly better prognosis, but lead‐time bias could contribute substantially to this apparent benefit. There is indirect evidence that surveillance is likely to be effective at reducing the risk of death from IBD‐associated colorectal cancer and indirect evidence that it may be acceptably cost‐effective.
 There are no studies which have specifically evaluated the addition of carbohydrate alone for the purpose of improving growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes. No recommendations for practice can be made. Research should be directed towards comparison of different quantities and types of carbohydrate in multicomponent fortifiers containing protein and minerals, specifically evaluating short‐term growth and long‐term growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes.
 Caution is required when interpreting the possible positive effects of chest physiotherapy of a reduction in the use of reintubation and the trend for decreased post‐extubation atelectasis as the numbers of babies studied are small, the results are not consistent across trials, data on safety are insufficient, and applicability to current practice may be limited.
 The results of this review confirm much that clinicians and recipients of care already know but aim to provide quantification to support clinical impression. Chlorpromazine's global position as a 'benchmark' treatment for psychoses is not threatened by the findings of this review. Chlorpromazine, in common use for half a century, is a well established but imperfect treatment. Judicious use of this best available evidence should lead to improved evidence‐based decision making by clinicians, carers and patients.Please note the addition of 26 studies to awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.
 Budesonide is more effective than placebo or mesalamine for induction of remission in Crohn's disease. Although short‐term efficacy with budesonide is less than with conventional steroids, particularly in those with severe disease or more extensive colonic involvement, the likelihood of adverse events and adrenal suppression is lower.
 Brynskov 1989a enrolled a small number of patients and the modified clinical grading scale used in the study has not been validated in other studies. Furthermore, statistically significant clinical improvement does not imply induction of clinical remission. Indeed, Brynskov 1989a found no statistically significant differences in the mean Crohn's Disease Activity Index score at 12 weeks indicating that cyclosporine was no more effective than placebo for induction of remission in Crohn's disease. The results of this review demonstrate that low dose (5 mg/kg/day) oral cyclosporine is not effective for the induction of remission in Crohn's disease. Patients treated with low dose oral cyclosporine are more likely than placebo treated patients to experience adverse events including renal dysfunction. The use of low dose oral cyclosporine for the treatment of chronic active Crohn's disease does not appear to be justified. Oral dosing at higher levels or parenteral administration of cyclosporine have not been adequately evaluated in controlled clinical trials. Higher doses of cyclosporine are not likely to be useful for the long‐term management of Crohn's disease because of the risk of nephrotoxicity and the availability of other proven interventions.
 Anti‐tuberculous therapy may be effective in maintaining remission in patients with Crohn's disease when remission has been induced with corticosteroids combined with anti‐tuberculous therapy. However, the results which support this conclusion come from a subgroup of only two trials with small numbers of patients and should be interpreted with caution. Use of this therapy cannot be recommended on the basis of this evidence.
 The use of conventional systemic corticosteroids in patients with clinically quiescent Crohn's disease does not appear to reduce the risk of relapse over a 24 month period of follow‐up. An updated literature search performed in July 2008 did not identify any new trials.
 U and LMW heparins protect against lower limb DVT. There is insufficient evidence to confirm either protection against pulmonary embolism or an overall benefit, or to distinguish between various applications of heparin.Foot and calf pumping devices appear to prevent DVT, may protect against pulmonary embolism, and reduce mortality, but compliance remains a problem.Good quality trials of mechanical methods as well as direct comparisons with heparin and low dose aspirin should be considered.
 There are more data for fluphenazine decanoate than for the enanthate ester. Both are effective antipsychotic preparations. In the context of trials, there is little advantage of these depots over oral medications in terms of compliance but this is unlikely to be applicable to everyday clinical practice.
 Implications for practice Dexamethasone reduces the need for endotracheal reintubation of neonates after a period of IPPV. In view of the lack of effect in low‐risk infants and the documented and potential side effects, it appears reasonable to restrict its use to infants at increased risk for airway edema and obstruction, such as those who have received repeated or prolonged intubations.Implications for research Issues of dosage and applicability to the extremely low birthweight population could be addressed in future trials. Outcomes such as chronic lung disease, duration of assisted ventilation and length of hospital stay as well as long‐term neurodevelopment should also be examined.
 The evidence suggests that a discharge plan tailored to the individual patient probably brings about reductions in hospital length of stay and readmission rates for older people admitted to hospital with a medical condition. The impact of discharge planning on mortality, health outcomes and cost remains uncertain.
 There remains insufficient evidence from randomised controlled trials to determine which methods of conservative treatment are the most appropriate for the more common types of distal radial fractures in adults. Therefore, at present, practitioners applying conservative management should use an accepted technique with which they are familiar, and which is cost‐effective from the perspective of their provider unit. Patient preferences and circumstances, and the risk of complications should also be considered.Prioritising research questions to clarify the most appropriate conservative treatment for this common fracture is warranted. Researchers should differentiate between extra‐articular and intra‐articular, and non‐displaced and displaced fractures, ascertain patient preferences, and agree a core outcome data set.
 The findings of this review support use of IUI rather than CI in stimulated cycles using cryopreserved sperm for donor insemination.
 The major limitations are the lack of replication of the findings and sufficiently large trials. There is moderate evidence for the benefit of intravenous methylprednisolone given within eight hours of acute whiplash, from a single trial. Lidocaine injection into myofascial trigger points appears effective in two trials. There is moderate evidence that Botulinum toxin A is not superior to saline injection for chronic MND. Muscle relaxants, analgesics and NSAIDs had limited evidence and unclear benefits.
 Topical permethrin appears to be the most effective treatment for scabies. Ivermectin appears to be an effective oral treatment. More research is needed on the effectiveness of malathion, particularly when compared to permethrin, and on the management of scabies in an institutional setting and at a community level.
 There remains insufficient data on the effect of swallowing therapy, feeding, and nutritional and fluid supplementation on functional outcome and death in dysphagic patients with acute or subacute stroke. Behavioural interventions and acupuncture reduced dysphagia, and pharyngeal electrical stimulation reduced pharyngeal transit time. Compared with NGT feeding, PEG reduced treatment failures and gastrointestinal bleeding, and had higher feed delivery and albumin concentration. Nutritional supplementation was associated with reduced pressure sores, and increased energy and protein intake.
 Asthma self‐management education programs in children improve a wide range of measures of outcome. Self‐management education directed to prevention and management of attacks should be incorporated into routine asthma care. Conclusions about the relative effectiveness of the various components are limited by the lack of direct comparisons. Future trials of asthma education programs should focus on morbidity and functional status outcomes, including quality of life, and involve direct comparisons of the various components of interventions.
 The overall analysis shows a benefit in pulmonary outcomes in the group electively ventilated with HFJV. Of concern is the significant increase in acute brain injury in one trial which used lower mean airway pressures when ventilating with HFJV. There are as yet no long term pulmonary or neurodevelopmental outcomes from any of the trials.
 Endometrial resection and ablation offers an alternative to hysterectomy as a surgical treatment for heavy menstrual bleeding. Both procedures are effective and satisfaction rates are high. Although hysterectomy is associated with a longer operating time, a longer recovery period and higher rates of post‐operative complications, it offers permanent relief from heavy menstrual bleeding. The initial cost of endometrial destruction is significantly lower than hysterectomy but, since re‐treatment is often necessary, the cost difference narrows over time.
 The evidence provided by the four included RCTs shows that enemas do not have a significant beneficial effect on infection rates such as perineal wound infection or other neonatal infections and women's satisfaction. These findings speak against the routine use of enemas during labour, therefore, such practice should be discouraged.
 Epidural analgesia appears to be effective in reducing pain during labour. However, women who use this form of pain relief are at increased risk of having an instrumental delivery. Epidural analgesia had no statistically significant impact on the risk of caesarean section, maternal satisfaction with pain relief and long‐term backache and did not appear to have an immediate effect on neonatal status as determined by Apgar scores. Further research may be helpful to evaluate rare but potentially severe adverse effects of epidural analgesia on women in labour and long‐term neonatal outcomes.
 Our results suggest a relatively small statistically significant, but possibly important, effect of exercise on bone density compared with control groups. Exercise has the potential to be a safe and effective way to avert bone loss in postmenopausal women.
 Exercise therapy appears to be slightly effective at decreasing pain and improving function in adults with chronic low‐back pain, particularly in healthcare populations. In subacute low‐back pain there is some evidence that a graded activity program improves absenteeism outcomes, though evidence for other types of exercise is unclear. In acute low‐back pain, exercise therapy is as effective as either no treatment or other conservative treatments.
 Only one included study compared pharmacist services with other health professional services, hence we are unable to draw conclusions regarding comparisons 1 and 3. Most included studies supported the role of pharmacists in medication/therapeutic management, patient counseling, and providing health professional education with the goal of improving patient process of care and clinical outcomes, and of educational outreach visits on physician prescribing patterns. There was great heterogeneity in the types of outcomes measured across all studies. Therefore a standardized approach to measure and report clinical, humanistic, and process outcomes for future randomized controlled studies evaluating the impact of outpatient pharmacists is needed. Heterogeneity in study comparison groups, outcomes, and measures makes it challenging to make generalised statements regarding the impact of pharmacists in specific settings, disease states, and patient populations.
 Although there is a lack of available evidence to inform practice for undisplaced intracapsular fractures, variation in practice has reduced and most fractures are treated surgically. The limited available evidence from randomised trials does not suggest major differences in outcome between conservative and operative management programmes for extracapsular femoral fractures, but operative treatment is associated with a reduced length of hospital stay and improved rehabilitation. Conservative treatment will be acceptable where modern surgical facilities are unavailable, and will result in a reduction in complications associated with surgery, but rehabilitation is likely to be slower and limb deformity more common. Currently, it is difficult to conceive circumstances in which future trials would be practical or viable.
 Any advantages in intra‐operative outcomes of condylocephalic nails are outweighed by the increase in fracture healing complications, reoperation rate, residual pain and limb deformity when compared with an extramedullary implant, particularly a sliding hip screw. The use of condylocephalic nails (in particular Ender nails), for trochanteric fracture is no longer appropriate.
 The markedly increased fixation failure rate of fixed nail plates compared with the SHS is a major consideration and thus the SHS appears preferable.There was insufficient evidence from other comparisons of extramedullary implants or on the use of external fixators to draw definite conclusions.
 There is insufficient evidence to make recommendations for practice. Further research should evaluate the practice of supplementation of human milk with fat. This may best be done in the context of the development of multicomponent fortifiers. Both short term growth outcomes and long term growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes should be evaluated. Adverse effects should be evaluated.
 Multicomponent fortification of human milk is associated with short‐term improvements in weight gain, linear and head growth. Despite the absence of evidence of long‐term benefit and insufficient evidence to be reassured that there are no deleterious effects, it is unlikely that further studies evaluating fortification of human milk versus no supplementation will be performed. Further research should be directed toward comparisons between different proprietary preparations and evaluating both short‐term and long‐term outcomes in search of the "optimal" composition of fortifiers.
 Pretreatment with glucocorticosteroids before treatment with alfa interferon in patients with hepatitis B 'e' antigen positive chronic hepatitis B may be more effective than treatment with alfa interferon alone with regard to loss of hepatitis B 'e' antigen and hepatitis B virus DNA, but evidence for effect on clinical outcomes is lacking.
 There is some evidence that guideline‐driven care is effective in changing the process and outcome of care provided by professions allied to medicine. However, caution is needed in generalising findings to other professions and settings.
 There is no strong evidence from randomised trials to favour either planned hospital birth or planned home birth for low‐risk pregnant women. However, the trials show that women living in areas where they are not well informed about home birth may welcome ethically well‐designed trials that would ensure an informed choice. As the quality of evidence in favour of home birth from observational studies seems to be steadily increasing, it might be as important to prepare a regularly updated systematic review including observational studies as described in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions as to attempt to set up new randomised controlled trials.
 There is not enough evidence to reliably assess the possible role of homeopathy in asthma. As well as randomised trials, there is a need for observational data to document the different methods of homeopathic prescribing and how patients respond. This will help to establish to what extent people respond to a 'package of care' rather than the homeopathic intervention alone.
 Despite increasing interest in the potential of early discharge hospital at home services as a cheaper alternative to in‐patient care, this review provides insufficient objective evidence of economic benefit or improved health outcomes.
 As in an earlier systematic review, we found hydergine to show significant treatment effects when assessed by either global ratings or comprehensive rating scales (based here on a smaller set of trials than in the earlier published systematic review because trials were required to have data that could conform with MetaView, the Cochrane Collaboration statistics software). The small number of trials available for analysis, however, limited the ability of subgroup analyses to identify statistically significant moderating effects.Unfortunately, most of the randomized, double‐blind, and placebo‐controlled trials of hydergine were conducted and published before the advent of consensus‐based diagnostic standards of dementia in 1984; therefore diagnostic criteria were less specific. As a result, uncertainty remains regarding hydergine's efficacy in dementia.
 There was insufficient evidence of effectiveness to recommend or advise against IUI with or without OH above TI, or vice versa. Large, high quality randomised controlled trials, comparing IUI with or without OH with pregnancy rate per couple as the main outcome of interest are lacking. There is a need for such trials since firm conclusions cannot be drawn yet.
 IVIG administration results in a 3% reduction in sepsis and a 4% reduction in one or more episodes of any serious infection but is not associated with reductions in other clinically important outcomes, including mortality. Prophylactic use of IVIG is not associated with any short‐term serious side effects.The decision to use prophylactic IVIG will depend on the costs and the values assigned to the clinical outcomes. There is no justification for conducting additional RCTs to test the efficacy of previously studied IVIG preparations in reducing nosocomial infections in preterm and/or LBW infants.
 ITNs are highly effective in reducing childhood mortality and morbidity from malaria. Widespread access to ITNs is currently being advocated by Roll Back Malaria, but universal deployment will require major financial, technical, and operational inputs.
 Uncertainty remains about the degree of protection that vaccination affords against asthma exacerbations that are related to influenza infection. Evidence from more recently published randomised trials of inactivated split‐virus influenza vaccination indicates that there is no significant increase in asthma exacerbations immediately after vaccination in adults or children over three years of age. We were unable to address concerns regarding possible increased wheezing and hospital admissions in infants given live intranasal vaccination.
 Inositol supplementation results in statistically significant and clinically important reductions in important short‐term adverse neonatal outcomes. A multicenter randomized controlled trial of appropriate size is justified to confirm these findings.
 These findings are equivocal and, although some of the results of individual studies suggest a positive effect of intercessory prayer, the majority do not and the evidence does not support a recommendation either in favour or against the use of intercessory prayer. We are not convinced that further trials of this intervention should be undertaken and would prefer to see any resources available for such a trial used to investigate other questions in health care.
 Interferon alfa is effective in improving biochemical outcomes and achieving sustained virologic clearance in patients with transfusion‐acquired acute hepatitis C. The effect on long‐term clinical outcomes could not be assessed due to limitations in the current data.
 Interferon is effective in achieving viral clearance and improving liver biochemistry and histology in interferon naive patients with chronic hepatitis C. Higher doses and prolonged durations are more effective, but associated with more frequent adverse events. Interferon is associated with similar benefits in patients with cirrhosis, but the efficacy in patients with normal aminotransferases is unproven.
 Screening children for intestinal helminths and then treating infected children appears promising, but the evidence base is small. Routine deworming drugs given to school children has been more extensively investigated, and has not shown benefit on weight in most studies, except for substantial weight changes in three trials conducted 15 years ago or more. Two of these trials were carried out in the same high prevalence setting. For haemoglobin and cognition, community deworming seems to have little or no effect, and the evidence in relation to school attendance, and school performance is generally poor, with no obvious or consistent effect. Our interpretation of this data is that it is probably misleading to justify contemporary deworming programmes based on evidence of consistent benefit on nutrition, haemoglobin, school attendance or school performance as there is simply insufficient reliable information to know whether this is so.
 Implications for practice. Prophylactic use of kinesthetic stimulation cannot be recommended to reduce apnea/bradycardia in preterm infants.Implications for research. There are currently no clear research questions regarding prophylactic use of kinesthetic stimulation to prevent apnea in preterm infants.
 Majority of the RCTS have not shown beneficial effects of LCPUFA supplementation on the neurodevelopmental outcomes of term infants. The beneficial effects on visual acuity have not been consistently demonstrated. Routine supplementation of term infant milk formula with LCPUFA can not be recommended.
 There are limited data on this important issue and more research is urgently needed.
 There is insufficient evidence available from randomised controlled trials to determine the relative effectiveness of surgical and conservative treatment for acute injuries of the lateral ligament complex of the ankle. High quality randomised controlled trials of primary surgical repair versus the best available conservative treatment for well‐defined injuries are required.
 Currently there is no good evidence to suggest life skills programmes are effective for people with chronic mental illnesses. More robust data are needed from studies that are adequately powered to determine whether life skills training is beneficial for people with chronic mental health problems.
 The effects of hospital care and the length of stay is important for mental health policy. We found limited data, although outcomes do suggest that a planned short stay policy does not encourage a 'revolving door' pattern of admission and disjointed care for people with serious mental illness. More large, well‐designed and reported trials are justified.
 There is insufficient evidence available from randomised controlled trials to determine the relative effectiveness of surgical and conservative treatment for acute injuries of the lateral ligament complex of the ankle. High quality randomised controlled trials of primary surgical repair versus the best available conservative treatment for well‐defined injuries are required.
 Currently there is no good evidence to suggest life skills programmes are effective for people with chronic mental illnesses. More robust data are needed from studies that are adequately powered to determine whether life skills training is beneficial for people with chronic mental health problems.
 The effects of hospital care and the length of stay is important for mental health policy. We found limited data, although outcomes do suggest that a planned short stay policy does not encourage a 'revolving door' pattern of admission and disjointed care for people with serious mental illness. More large, well‐designed and reported trials are justified.
 The evidence base is not strong enough to support firm conclusions. The available evidence suggests that AQ plus SP can achieve less treatment failure than SP, but this might depend on existing levels of parasite resistance to the individual drugs.Addendum, 2008: The World Health Organization (in 2006) recommended that monotherapy should not be used for treating malaria. Therefore the authors do not intend to update this review.
 The range of proven effective interventions for chronic pelvic pain remains limited and recommendations are based largely on single studies. Given the prevalence and healthcare costs associated with chronic pelvic pain in women, randomised controlled trials of other medical, surgical and psychological interventions are urgently required. Chronic pelvic pain is common in women in the reproductive and older age groups and it causes disability and distress that result in significant costs to health services. The pathogenesis of chronic pelvic pain is poorly understood. Often investigation by laparoscopy reveals no obvious cause for the pain. There are several possible explanations for chronic pelvic pain including undetected irritable bowel syndrome, and central sensitisation of the nervous system. A vascular hypothesis proposes that pain arises from dilated pelvic veins in which blood flow is markedly reduced. As the pathophysiology of chronic pelvic pain is not well understood, its treatment is often unsatisfactory and limited to symptom relief. Currently the main approaches to treatment include counselling or psychotherapy, attempts to provide reassurance using laparoscopy to exclude serious pathology, progestogen therapy such as with medroxyprogesterone acetate and surgery to interrupt nerve pathways.
 Despite the limited information about key aspects of mass media interventions and the poor quality of the available primary research there is evidence that these channels of communication may have an important role in influencing the use of health care interventions. Although the findings of this review may be affected by publication bias, those engaged in promoting better uptake of research information in clinical practice should consider mass media as one of the tools that may encourage the use of effective services and discourage those of unproven effectiveness.
 Evidence that massage for preterm infants is of benefit for developmental outcomes is weak and does not warrant wider use of preterm infant massage. Where massage is currently provided by nurses, consideration should be given as to whether this is a cost‐effective use of time. Future research should assess the effects of massage interventions on clinical outcome measures, such as medical complications or length of stay, and on process‐of‐care outcomes, such as care‐giver or parental satisfaction.
 Methotrexate may have a small steroid sparing effect in adults with asthma who are dependent on oral corticosteroids. However, the overall reduction in daily steroid use is probably not large enough to reduce steroid‐induced adverse effects. This small potential to reduce the impact of steroid side‐effects is probably insufficient to offset the adverse effects of methotrexate.
 The evidence from the 65 trials included in this review suggests that NSAIDs are effective for short‐term symptomatic relief in patients with acute and chronic low‐back pain without sciatica. However, effect sizes are small. Furthermore, there does not seem to be a specific type of NSAID which is clearly more effective than others. The selective COX‐2 inhibitors showed fewer side effects compared to traditional NSAIDs in the RCTs included in this review. However, recent studies have shown that COX‐2 inhibitors are associated with increased cardiovascular risks in specific patient populations.
 There is currently insufficient evidence from randomised trials on the effects of nitric oxide donors, L‐arginine, or nitric oxide synthase‐inhibitors in patients with acute stroke to recommend their use. A large controlled trial of glyceryl trinitrate patches is underway.
 On the evidence presently available, it appears reasonable to use inhaled nitric oxide in an initial concentration of 20 ppm for term and near term infants with hypoxic respiratory failure who do not have a diaphragmatic hernia.
 NSAIDs reduce HMB when compared with placebo but are less effective than tranexamic acid, danazol or LNG IUS. However, adverse events are more severe with danazol therapy. In the limited number of small studies suitable for evaluation, no significant difference in efficacy was demonstrated between NSAIDs and other medical treatments such as oral luteal progestogen, ethamsylate, OCC or another type of intrauterine system, Progestasert.
 Hormone therapy for postmenopausal women with an intact uterus should comprise both estrogen and progestogen to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia.
 Evidence suggests that oral antibiotics reduce the incidence of NEC in low birth weight infants. However concerns about adverse outcomes persist, particularly related to the development of resistant bacteria. To address this question further, a large trial would be required with a sample size sufficient to examine all the important benefits and harms. Adverse outcomes associated with infection should be evaluated, and microbiological studies looking for the development of resistant bacteria should be undertaken
 Oral calorie supplements do not confer any additional benefit in the nutritional management of moderately malnourished children with CF over and above the use of dietary advice and monitoring alone. While nutritional supplements may be used, they should not be regarded as essential. Further randomised controlled trials are needed to establish the role of short‐term oral protein energy supplements in people with CF and acute weight loss and also for the long‐term nutritional management of adults with CF or advanced lung disease, or both.
 Oral corticosteroids at prednisolone‐equivalent dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg alternate days appear to slow progression of lung disease in CF; benefit should be weighed against occurrence of adverse events. Risk‐benefit analysis of low‐dose alternate days corticosteroids is important. No further trials of this intervention are anticipated, and hence the review will no longer be regularly updated. However, if any new data are published, these will be incorporate when available.
 EOVs alone or when combined with other interventions have effects on prescribing that are relatively consistent and small, but potentially important. Their effects on other types of professional performance vary from small to modest improvements, and it is not possible from this review to explain that variation.
 Although 14 RCTs were included in this review, few dealt with the same comparisons, all were small to moderate size and their methodological quality was generally poor. Any conclusions, therefore, remain tentative as they are based on a limited amount of data and will require further RCTs to substantiate them. In none of the comparisons was there a significant improvement in pregnancy rate but this may be due to the lack of power (i.e. insufficient patients randomised to demonstrate a significant difference between treatments). There was a trend towards better pregnancy rates with the addition of a GnRH‐a to gonadotrophin stimulation and these interventions warrant further study. Despite theoretical advantages, urinary‐derived FSH preparations did not improve pregnancy rates when compared to traditional and cheaper hMG preparations; their only demonstrable benefit was a reduced risk of OHSS in cycles when administered without the concomitant use of a GnRH‐a. No conclusions can be drawn on miscarriage and multiple pregnancy rates due to insufficient reporting of these outcomes in the trials.
 The four trials describing four different comparisons with a short follow up (1 to 3 cycles) were too small to either prove or discard the value of pulsatile GnRH treatment in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome.
 There is some suggestion (but no statistically significant result) of an unfavourable effect of piracetam on early death, but this may have been caused by baseline differences in stroke severity in the trials. There is not enough evidence to assess the effect of piracetam on dependence.
 This meta‐analysis provides evidence supporting the recommendation for PPV to prevent IPD in adults. The evidence from RCTs is less clear with respect to adults with chronic illness. This might be because of lack of effect or lack of power in the studies. The meta‐analysis does not provide evidence to support the routine use of PPV to prevent all‐cause pneumonia or mortality.
 Drug treatment with piracetam may be effective in the treatment of aphasia after stroke. Further research is needed to explore the effects of drugs for aphasia, in particular piracetam. The safety of the drug should be of primary interest. Researchers should examine the long‐term effects and whether it is more effective than speech and language therapy.
 Our review provides some evidence of the effectiveness of SLT for people with aphasia following stroke in terms of improved functional communication, receptive and expressive language. However, some trials were poorly reported. The potential benefits of intensive SLT over conventional SLT were confounded by a significantly higher dropout from intensive SLT. More participants also withdrew from social support than SLT interventions. There was insufficient evidence to draw any conclusion regarding the effectiveness of any one specific SLT approach over another.
 This review does not provide sufficient evidence on which to base practice. Although preoxygenation was shown to decrease hypoxemia at the time of suctioning, this result comes from only one small poor quality trial in which other clinically important outcomes were not assessed. Further studies are needed.
 The results of this review do not support the use of prophylactic caffeine for preterm infants at risk of apnoea.Any future studies need to examine the effects of prophylactic methylxanthines in preterm infants at higher risk of apnoea. This should include examination of important clinical outcomes such as need for IPPV, neonatal morbidity, length of hospital stay and long term development.
 Protein supplementation of human milk in relatively well preterm infants results in increases in short term weight gain, linear and head growth. Urea levels are increased, which may reflect adequate rather than excessive dietary protein intake. Further research should be directed towards the evaluation of specific levels of protein intake in preterm infants and the clinical effects of supplementation with protein, including long term growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes. This may best be done in the context of refinement of available multicomponent fortifier preparations.
 There is insufficient evidence to inform the management of these fractures. Early physiotherapy, without immobilisation, may be sufficient for some types of undisplaced fractures. It remains unclear whether surgery, even for specific fracture types, will produce consistently better long term outcomes but it is likely to be associated with a higher risk of surgery‐related complications and requirement for further surgery.There is insufficient evidence to establish what is the best method of surgical treatment, either in terms of the use of different categories of surgical intervention (such as plate versus nail fixation, or hemiarthroplasty versus tension‐wire fixation) or different methods of performing an intervention in the same category (such as different methods of plate fixation). There is insufficient evidence to say when to start mobilisation after either surgical fixation or hemiarthroplasty.
 Radiant warmers result in increased IWL compared to incubators. This needs to be taken into account when calculating daily fluid requirements. The results of this review do not provide sufficient evidence concerning effects on important outcomes to guide clinical practice. Further randomised controlled trials are required to assess the effects of radiant warmers versus incubators in neonatal care on important short and long term outcomes, with particular attention to extremely low birthweight infants in the early neonatal period.
 This review did not find any evidence that dietary sodium reduction significantly improves asthma control. Although dietary sodium reduction may result in improvements in lung function in exercise‐induced asthma, the clinical significance of this effect is unclear.
 There was no significant difference in the overall mortality between rescue high frequency jet ventilation and conventional groups. In a secondary analysis, rescue treatment with HFJV, up until the time of cross‐over, was associated with lower mortality. There was no significant increase in adverse effects like intraventricular hemorrhage, new air leaks, airway obstruction and necrotizing tracheobronchitis with rescue high frequency jet ventilation. The included study was done before the introduction of surfactant and widespread use of antenatal steroids. The number of infants included was small and there were high numbers of post randomization exclusions. Due to the crossover design and small numbers of infants in the included study, there is insufficient information to assess the effectiveness of rescue HFJV in preterm infants. Studies that target the most at‐risk population and have appropriate power to assess some of the important outcomes are needed. These trials would also need to incorporate long term pulmonary and neurodevelopmental outcomes.
 There is insufficient information on the use of rescue HFOV to make recommendations for practice. The small amount of data that exists suggest that harm might outweigh any benefit. Any future use of HFOV as rescue therapy for preterm infants with severe RDS should be within randomised controlled trials and address important outcomes such as longer term pulmonary and neurological function.
 Risperidone may be more acceptable to those with schizophrenia than older antipsychotics and have marginal benefits in terms of limited clinical improvement. Its adverse effect profile may be better than haloperidol. With the addition of more studies to this review, the publication bias evident in previous versions is no longer a significant issue. Any marginal benefits this drug may have have to be balanced against its greater cost and increased tendency to cause side effects such as weight gain.Recent important longer term data favouring risperidone's effect on relapse needs to be replicated by researchers independently of the manufacturers of the drug.
 Despite its initial promise, i.e. the potential neuroprotective properties, and its role in the treatment of Parkinson's disease sufferers, selegiline for Alzheimer's disease has proved disappointing. Although there is no evidence of a significant adverse event profile, there is also no evidence of a clinically meaningful benefit for Alzheimer's disease sufferers. This is true irrespective of the outcome measure evaluated, i.e. cognition, emotional state, activities of daily living, and global assessment, whether in the short, or longer term (up to 69 weeks), where this has been assessed. There would seem to be no justification, therefore, to use it in the treatment of people with Alzheimer's disease, nor for any further studies of its efficacy in Alzheimer's disease.
 Appropriately resourced ESD services provided for a selected group of stroke patients can reduce long‐term dependency and admission to institutional care as well as reducing the length of hospital stay. We observed no adverse impact on the mood or subjective health status of patients or carers.
 The available evidence suggests that the hypericum extracts tested in the included trials a) are superior to placebo in patients with major depression; b) are similarly effective as standard antidepressants; c) and have fewer side effects than standard antidepressants. The association of country of origin and precision with effects sizes complicates the interpretation.
 The use of shock absorbing inserts in footwear probably reduces the incidence of stress fractures in military personnel. There is insufficient evidence to determine the best design of such inserts but comfort and tolerability should be considered.Rehabilitation after tibial stress fracture may be aided by the use of pneumatic bracing but more evidence is required to confirm this.
 Routine use of sweeping of membranes from 38 weeks of pregnancy onwards does not seem to produce clinically important benefits. When used as a means for induction of labour, the reduction in the use of more formal methods of induction needs to be balanced against women's discomfort and other adverse effects.[Note: The 11 citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 Primary healthcare interventions and a strong family and social support network are invaluable to parents and families around the time a baby dies. However, due to the lack of high‐quality randomised trials conducted in this area, the true benefits of currently existing interventions aimed at providing support for mothers, fathers and families experiencing perinatal death is unclear. Further, the currently available evidence around the potential detrimental effects of some interventions (e.g. seeing and holding a deceased baby) remains inconclusive at this point in time. However, some well‐designed descriptive studies have shown that, under the right circumstances and guided by compassionate, sensitive, experienced staff, parents' experiences of seeing and holding their deceased baby is often very positive. The sensitive nature of this topic and small sample sizes, make it difficult to develop rigorous clinical trials. Hence, other research designs may further inform practice in this area. Where justified, methodologically rigorous trials are needed. However, methodologically rigorous trials should be considered comparing different approaches to support.
 Dedicated schemes whereby people with severe mental illness are located within one site or building with assistance from professional workers have potential for great benefit as they provide a 'safe haven' for people in need of stability and support. This, however, may be at the risk of increasing dependence on professionals and prolonging exclusion from the community. Whether or not the benefits outweigh the risks can only be a matter of opinion in the absence of reliable evidence. There is an urgent need to investigate the effects of supported housing on people with severe mental illness within a randomised trial.
 Compared to conventional ventilation, benefit is demonstrated for both HFPPV and triggered ventilation with regard to a reduction in air leak and a shorter duration of ventilation, respectively. In none of the trials was complex respiratory monitoring undertaken and thus it is not possible to conclude that the mechanism of producing those benefits is by provocation of synchronized ventilation. Further trials are needed to determine whether synchronized ventilation is associated with other benefits, but optimisation of trigger and ventilator design with respect to respiratory diagnosis is encouraged before embarking on further trials. It is essential newer forms of triggered ventilation are tested in adequately powered randomised trials with long‐term outcomes before they are incorporated into routine clinical practice.
 Although there has been a large amount of research in this area, most studies were excluded due to inherent problems in the nature of their crossover designs. Usually data are not reported before the crossover and the nature of TD and its likely response to treatments makes it imprudent to use this data. The review provides little usable information for service users or providers and more well designed and reported studies are indicated.
 Limited data from small studies using neuroleptic reduction or specific neuroleptic drugs as treatments for TD did not provide any convincing evidence of the value of these approaches. There is a need for larger trials of a longer duration in order to fully investigate this area.
 Due to the paucity of available evidence, it is not possible to provide firm conclusions as to the effects of tartrazine on asthma control. However, the six RCTs that could be included in this review all arrived at the same conclusion. Routine tartrazine exclusion may not benefit most patients, except those very few individuals with proven sensitivity.
 Very limited data are available to support the use of thioridazine in the treatment of dementia. If thioridazine were not currently in widespread clinical use, there would be inadequate evidence to support its introduction.The only positive effect of thioridazine when compared to placebo is the reduction of anxiety. When compared to placebo, other neuroleptics, and other sedatives, it has equal or higher rates of adverse effects.Clinicians should be aware that there is no evidence to support the use of thioridazine in dementia, and its use may expose patients to excess side effects.
 The absorbable adhesion barrier Interceed reduces the incidence of adhesion formation following laparoscopy and laparotomy, but there are insufficient data to support its use to improve pregnancy rates. Gore‐Tex may be superior to Interceed in preventing adhesion formation but its usefulness is limited by the need for suturing and later removal. There was no evidence of effectiveness of Seprafilm and Fibrin sheet in preventing adhesion formation.
 Azathioprine therapy appears to be more effective than placebo for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis. Azathioprine or 6‐mercaptopurine may be effective as maintenance therapy for patients who have failed or cannot tolerate mesalazine or sulfasalazine and for patients who require repeated courses of steroids. More research is needed to evaluate superiority over standard maintenance therapy, especially in the light of a potential for adverse events from azathioprine. This review updates the existing review of azathioprine and 6‐mercaptopurine for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis which was published in the Cochrane Library (Issue 1, 2007).
 There is evidence suggesting that treatment of a varicocele in men from couples with otherwise unexplained subfertility may improve a couple's chance of pregnancy. However, findings are inconclusive as the quality of the available evidence is very low and more research is needed with live birth or pregnancy rate as the primary outcome.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the effect of vinpocetine on survival or dependency in patients with acute ischaemic stroke.
 The effects of volume expansion therapy have been studied properly in only two trials of patients with aneurysmal SAH, with very small numbers. At present, there is no sound evidence for the use of volume expansion therapy in patients with aneurysmal SAH.
 Antibiotic treatment is effective in reducing the risk of pyelonephritis in pregnancy. A reduction in low birthweight is consistent with current theories about the role of infection in adverse pregnancy outcomes, but this association should be interpreted with caution given the poor quality of the included studies.
 Single‐dose regimen of antibiotics may be less effective than the seven‐day regimen. Women with asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy should be treated by the standard regimen of antibiotics until more data become available testing seven‐day compared with three‐ or five‐day regimens.
 Different approaches to assessing and reporting pruritus precluded pooling of trials comparing the effects of UDCA versus placebo on pruritus, but examination of individual trials suggests that UDCA significantly improves pruritus, albeit by a small amount. Fewer instances of fetal distress/asphyxial events were seen in the UDCA groups when compared with placebo but the difference was not statistically significant. Large trials of UDCA to determine fetal benefits or risks are needed.A single trial was too small to rule in or out a clinically important effect of early term delivery on caesarean section.There is insufficient evidence to indicate that SAMe, guar gum, activated charcoal, dexamethasone, cholestyramine, Salvia, Yinchenghao decoction (YCHD), Danxioling and Yiganling, or Yiganling alone or in combination are effective in treating women with cholestasis of pregnancy.
 Oral or sublingual misoprostol shows promising results when compared with placebo in reducing blood loss after delivery. The margin of benefit may be affected by whether other components of the management of the third stage of labour are used or not. As side‐effects are dose‐related, research should be directed towards establishing the lowest effective dose for routine use, and the optimal route of administration.Neither intramuscular prostaglandins nor misoprostol are preferable to conventional injectable uterotonics as part of the management of the third stage of labour especially for low‐risk women; however, evidence has been building for the use of oral misoprostol to be effective and safe in areas with low access to facilities and skilled healthcare providers and future research on misoprostol use in the community should focus on implementation issues.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the use of ultrasound in treating perineal pain or dyspareunia, or both, following childbirth.
 EMLA reduces pain response during circumcision in newborn male infants. Other potentially more effective forms of analgesia for circumcision (such as dorsal penile nerve block, ring block) should be subjected to systematic reviews.
 Intraventricular fibrinolytic therapy with streptokinase, given when post‐hemorrhagic ventricular dilatation is established, cannot be recommended for neonates following IVH. A conservative approach with CSF drainage applied only to symptomatic raised intracranial pressure seems appropriate.
 There is insufficient evidence to recommend kinesthetic stimulation as treatment for clinically significant apnea of prematurity. Previous reviews have suggested that kinesthetic stimulation is not effective at preventing apnea of prematurity (Henderson‐Smart 2005) and is not as effective as theophylline at treating clinically significant apnea of prematurity (Osborn 2005).
 Routine endotracheal intubation at birth in vigorous term meconium‐stained babies has not been shown to be superior to routine resuscitation including oro‐pharyngeal suction. This procedure cannot be recommended for vigorous infants until more research is available.
 Whether clinicians decide to utilise repeat intramuscular doses of vitamin A to prevent chronic lung disease may depend upon the local incidence of this outcome and the value attached to achieving a modest reduction in this outcome, balanced against the lack of other proven benefits and the acceptability of treatment. Information on long‐term neurodevelopmental status suggests no evidence of either benefit or harm from the intervention.
 The results of this review should be treated with caution. Theophylline has been shown in one small study to be superior to kinesthetic stimulation at treating clinically important apnea of prematurity. There are currently no clear research questions regarding the comparison of methylxanthines and kinesthetic stimulation to treat apnea of prematurity.
 Based on this analysis, the most prudent prescription for water intake to premature infants would seem to be careful restriction of water intake so that physiological needs are met without allowing significant dehydration. This practice could be expected to decrease the risks of patent ductus arteriosus and necrotizing enterocolitis without significantly increasing the risk of adverse consequences.
 The available trial data do not provide evidence of important beneficial or harmful effects of early trophic feeding for very preterm or very low birth weight infants. The applicability of these findings to extremely preterm, extremely low birth weight or growth restricted infants is limited. Further randomised controlled trials would be needed to determine how trophic feeding compared with enteral fasting affects important outcomes in this population.
 There appears to be no evidence to support the use of low placed umbilical artery catheters. High catheters should be used exclusively.
 Implications for practice: There is no evidence either supporting or refuting the use of inhaled nebulized racemic epinephrine in newborn infants.Implications for research: randomised controlled trials are needed comparing inhaled nebulized racemic epinephrine with placebo in neonates post‐extubation. This should be looked at both as a routine treatment post‐extubation and as specific treatment for post‐extubation upper airway obstruction. Study populations should include the group of infants at highest risk for upper airway obstruction from mucosal swelling because of their small glottic and subglottic diameters (i.e. those infants with birth weights less than 1000 grams).
 Heparinization of the fluid infused through an umbilical arterial catheter decreases the likelihood of umbilical arterial catheters occluding. The lowest concentration tested so far (0.25 units/mL) has been shown to be effective. Heparinization of flushes without heparinizing the infusate is ineffective. The frequency of aortic thrombosis has not been shown to be affected; however, the confidence intervals for this effect are very wide. The frequency of intraventricular hemorrhage has not been shown to be affected by heparinization of the infusate, but again the confidence intervals are very wide and even a major increase in the incidence of grade 3 and 4 intraventricular hemorrhage would not have been detected.
 Side hole catheters should be avoided for umbilical arterial catheterisation in the newborn.
 iNO as rescue therapy for the very ill preterm infant does not appear to be effective. Early routine use of iNO in preterm infants with respiratory disease does not affect serious brain injury or improve survival without BPD. Later use of iNO to prevent BPD might be effective, but requires further study.
 Although the early trials of prophylactic surfactant administration to infants judged to be at risk of developing RDS compared with selective use of surfactant in infants with established RDS demonstrated a decreased risk of air leak and mortality, recent large trials that reflect current practice (including greater utilization of maternal steroids and routine post delivery stabilization on CPAP) do not support these differences and demonstrate less risk of chronic lung disease or death when using early stabilization on CPAP with selective surfactant administration to infants requiring intubation.
 Prophylactic intratracheal administration of animal derived surfactant extract to infants judged to be at risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome has been demonstrated to improve clinical outcome. Infants who receive prophylactic animal derived surfactant extract have a decreased risk of pneumothorax, a decreased risk of PIE, a decreased risk of mortality, and a decreased risk of BPD or death.
 These limited data suggest that higher doses of thrombolytic agents may lead to higher rates of bleeding. However, the evidence is inadequate to conclude whether lower doses of thrombolytic agents are more effective than higher doses, or whether one agent is better than another, or which route of administration is the best, for acute ischaemic stroke. At present, intravenous rt‐PA at 0.9mg/kg as licensed in many countries appears to represent best practice and other drugs, doses or routes of administration should only be used in randomised controlled trials.
 Endovascular treatment is associated with an increased risk of peri‐procedural stroke or death compared with endarterectomy. However, this excess risk appears to be limited to older patients. The longer term efficacy of endovascular treatment and the risk of restenosis are unclear and require further follow‐up of existing trials. Further trials are needed to determine the optimal treatment for asymptomatic carotid stenosis.
 There is currently insufficient evidence to assess the effects of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with or without stenting or primary stenting for vertebral artery stenosis.
 Silver level evidence was found for one study in favour of mineral baths compared to drug treatment at eight weeks. Insufficient evidence was found for all other comparisons. However the scientific evidence is insufficient because of poor methodological quality. Therefore, the noted "positive findings" should be viewed with caution. Because of the methodological flaws, an answer about the apparent effectiveness of balneotherapy cannot be provided at this moment.
 Although its use can be limited by the incidence of serious toxicity, injectable gold has an important clinically and statistically significant benefit in the short term treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
 Overall, there was insufficient evidence available from trials comparing regional versus general anaesthesia to rule out clinically important differences. Regional anaesthesia may reduce acute postoperative confusion but no conclusions can be drawn for mortality or other outcomes.
 There is inadequate evidence to support the use of osteotomy for internal fixation of a trochanteric hip fracture. Similarly, there is insufficient evidence to support the use of the other techniques examined in the trials included in this review.
 There is insufficient evidence from randomised trials to determine which method of treatment is the most appropriate for isolated fractures of the ulnar shaft in adults. Well designed and reported randomised trials of current forms of conservative treatment are recommended.
 Recommendations on the use of zuclopenthixol acetate for the management of psychiatric emergencies in preference to 'standard' treatment have to be viewed with caution. Most of the small trials present important methodological flaws and findings are poorly reported. This review did not find any suggestion that zuclopenthixol acetate is more or less effective in controlling aggressive acute psychosis, or in preventing adverse effects than intramuscular haloperidol, and neither seemed to have a rapid onset of action. Use of zuclopenthixol acetate may result in less numerous coercive injections and low doses of the drug may be as effective as higher doses. Well‐conducted pragmatic randomised controlled trials are needed.
 Steroids could have important clinical benefits, but the trials published to date are too small to demonstrate an effect. This requires large placebo controlled trials. Subgroup analysis could explore whether effusion or fibrosis modify the effects. Therapeutic pericardiocentesis under local anaesthesia and pericardiectomy also require further evaluation.
 The evidence suggests that artemisinin drugs are no worse than quinine in preventing death in severe or complicated malaria. No artemisinin derivative appears to be better than the others.This review summarizes trials up to 1999. For the reasons in the 'What's new' section, this review will no longer be updated.
 The evidence from the studies identified in this review is not of sufficient quality or power to obtain a clear answer to the question as to whether target payment remuneration provides a method of improving primary health care. Additional efforts should be directed in evaluating changes in physicians' remuneration systems. Although it would not be difficult to design a randomised controlled trial to evaluate the impact of such payment systems, it would be difficult politically to conduct such trials.
 This review provides some evidence that MHWs working in primary care to deliver psychological therapy and psychosocial interventions cause a significant reduction in PCP behaviours such as consultations, prescribing, and referrals to specialist care. However, the changes are modest in magnitude, inconsistent, do not generalise to the wider patient population, and their clinical or economic significance is unclear.
 Antiplatelet therapy with aspirin had a slight beneficial effect on the patency of peripheral bypass grafts but seemed to have an inferior effect on venous graft patency compared with artificial grafts. The effect of aspirin on cardiovascular outcomes and survival was small and not statistically significant. This might be due to the fact that the majority of patients receiving a peripheral graft have an advanced stage of PAD with critical ischaemia. They are usually seriously ill as a result of cardiovascular disease and have high mortality rates, of 20% per year. Additionally, the number of patients included in this analysis might be too small to reach a statistically significant effect for mortality and cardiovascular morbidity.
 Patients undergoing infrainguinal venous graft are more likely to benefit from treatment with VKA than platelet inhibitors. Patients receiving an artificial graft benefit from platelet inhibitors (aspirin). However, the evidence is not conclusive. Randomised controlled trials with larger patient numbers are needed in the future to compare antithrombotic therapies with either placebo or antiplatelet therapies.
 Corticosteroid therapy is more effective than enteral nutrition for inducing remission of active Crohn's disease as was found in previous systematic reviews. Protein composition does not influence the effectiveness of EN in the treatment of active CD. A non significant trend favouring very low fat and/or very low long chain triglyceride content exists but larger trials are required to explore the significance of this finding.
 5‐ASA was superior to placebo and no more effective than SASP. Considering their relative costs, a clinical advantage to using oral 5‐ASA in place of SASP appears unlikely. 5‐ASA dosed once daily appears to be as efficacious and safe as conventionally dosed 5‐ASA. Adherence does not appear to be enhanced by once daily dosing in the clinical trial setting. It is unknown if once daily dosing of 5‐ASA improves adherence in a community‐based setting. There do not appear to be any differences in efficacy or safety among the various 5‐ASA formulations. A daily dosage of 2.4 g appears to be a safe and effective induction therapy for patients with mild to moderately active ulcerative colitis. Patients with moderate disease may benefit from an initial dose of 4.8 g/day.
 5‐ASA was superior to placebo for maintenance therapy in ulcerative colitis. However, 5‐ASA had a statistically significant therapeutic inferiority relative to SASP. Oral 5‐ASA administered once daily is as effective and safe as conventional dosing for maintenance of remission in quiescent ulcerative colitis. There does not appear to be any difference in efficacy or safety between the various formulations of 5‐ASA. Patients with extensive ulcerative colitis or with frequent relapses may benefit from a higher dose of maintenance therapy. High dose therapy appears to be as safe as low dose and is not associated with a higher incidence of adverse events.
 Azathioprine and 6‐mercaptopurine offer no advantage over placebo for induction of remission or clinical improvement in active Crohn's disease. Antimetaboilte therapy may allow patients to reduce steroid consumption. Adverse events were more common in patients receiving antimetabolites although differences with placebo were not statistically significant. Azathioprine therapy is inferior to infliximab for induction of steroid‐free remission. However, the combination of azathioprine and infliximab was superior to infliximab alone for induction of steroid‐free remission.
 The existing studies provide insufficient evidence to determine the efficacy of rapid smoking, or whether there is a dose‐response to aversive stimulation. Milder versions of aversive smoking seem to lack specific efficacy. Rapid smoking is an unproven method with sufficient indications of promise to warrant evaluation using modern rigorous methodology.
 The use of GnRH analogues for 3 to 4 months prior to fibroid surgery reduce both uterine volume and fibroid size. They are beneficial in the correction of pre‐operative iron deficiency anaemia, if present, and reduce intra‐operative blood loss. If uterine size is such that a mid‐line incision is planned, this can be avoided in many women with the use of GnRH analogues. For patients undergoing hysterectomy, a vaginal procedure is more likely following the use of these agents.
 This systematic review did not demonstrate any significant benefits of ursodeoxycholic acid on all‐cause mortality, all‐cause mortality or liver transplantation, pruritus, or fatigue in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Ursodeoxycholic acid seemed to have a beneficial effect on liver biochemistry measures and on histological progression compared with the control group. All but one of the included trials had high risk of bias, and there are risks of outcome reporting bias and risks of random errors as well. Randomised trials with low risk of bias and low risks of random errors examining the effects of ursodeoxycholic acid for primary biliary cirrhosis are needed.
 There is no evidence that single session individual psychological debriefing is a useful treatment for the prevention of post traumatic stress disorder after traumatic incidents. Compulsory debriefing of victims of trauma should cease. A more appropriate response could involve a 'screen and treat' model (NICE 2005).
 TCAs, SSRIs and MAOIs are effective in the treatment of older community patients and inpatients likely to have severe physical illness. At least six weeks of antidepressant treatment is recommended to achieve optimal therapeutic effect. There is little evidence concerning the efficacy of low dose TCA treatment. Further trials are required before low dose TCA treatment is routinely recommended.
 There is a small body of evidence for the efficacy of CBT in bulimia nervosa and similar syndromes, but the quality of trials is very variable and sample sizes are often small. More and larger trials are needed, particularly for binge eating disorder and other EDNOS syndromes. There is a need to develop more efficacious therapies for those with both a weight and an eating disorder.
 This review confirms the benefit of adding radiotherapy to breast conserving surgery for the treatment of all women diagnosed with DCIS. No long‐term toxicity from use of radiotherapy was identified.
 Day care has beneficial effect on children's development, school success and adult life patterns. To date, all randomised trials have been conducted among disadvantaged populations in the USA. The extent to which the results are generaliseable to other cultures and socioeconomic groups has yet to be evaluated.
 This systematic review of randomised controlled trials of calcium channel blockers in acute traumatic head injury patients shows that considerable uncertainty remains over their effects. The effect of nimodipine in a subgroup of brain injury patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage shows a beneficial effect, though the increase in adverse reactions suffered by the intervention group may mean that the drug is harmful for some patients.
 The data available are inadequate to assess any potential benefit or harm that might result from hyperventilation in severe head injury. Randomised controlled trials to assess the effectiveness of hyperventilation therapy following severe head injury are needed.
 In settings with limited resources where the number of visits is already low, reduced visits programmes of antenatal care are associated with an increase in perinatal mortality compared to standard care, although admission to neonatal intensive care may be reduced. Women prefer the standard visits schedule. Where the standard number of visits is low, visits should not be reduced without close monitoring of fetal and neonatal outcome.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the use of a specific set of criteria for self‐diagnosis of active labour.
 Labour assessment programs, which aim to delay hospital admission until active labour, may benefit women with term pregnancies.
 There is not enough high quality evidence to show that dietary magnesium supplementation during pregnancy is beneficial.[Note: The 15 citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 Induction of labour for suspected fetal macrosomia in non‐diabetic women has not been shown to alter the risk of maternal or neonatal morbidity, but the power of the included studies to show a difference in rare events is limited. Larger trials are needed to address this question.
 There is not enough evidence to show any difference between magnesium maintenance therapy compared with either placebo or no treatment, or alternative therapies (ritodrine or terbutaline) in preventing preterm birth after an episode of threatened preterm labour.
 Vaginal misoprostol in doses above 25 mcg four‐hourly was more effective than conventional methods of labour induction, but with more uterine hyperstimulation. Lower doses (25 mcg four‐hourly or less) were similar to conventional methods in effectiveness and risks. The authors request information on cases of uterine rupture known to readers. The vaginal route should not be researched further as another Cochrane review has shown that the oral route of administration is preferable to the vaginal route. Professional and governmental bodies should agree guidelines for the use of misoprostol, based on the best available evidence and local circumstances.[Note: The 27 citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 These results are encouraging but are limited by the sparse data and unclear methodological robustness, therefore further evidence is required before amnioinfusion for PPROM can be recommended for routine clinical practice.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the use of symphysis‐fundal height measurements during antenatal care.
 The continuous suturing techniques for perineal closure, compared with interrupted methods, are associated with less short‐term pain, need for analgesia and suture removal. Furthermore, there is also some evidence that the continuous techniques used less suture material as compared with the interrupted methods (one packet compared to two or three packets, respectively).
 Post extubation atelectasis may be more frequent after nasal intubation, particularly in very low birth weight infants. One route of intubation does not seem to be preferable to the other. There is a need for further randomized controlled trials containing larger numbers of infants.
 There are no demonstrated clinically relevant differences in outcomes between the use of PVC catheters and other materials. Therefore, other considerations such as price and ease of availability may dictate the catheter chosen. An adequately powered randomized comparison of silastic to PVC should be performed.
 We found no evidence to support the routine supplementation of parenterally fed neonates with carnitine.
 The results support a protective effect of supplementation with either folic or folinic acid for patients with rheumatoid arthritis during treatment with MTX.There was a clincally important significant reduction shown in the incidence of GI side effects, hepatic dysfunction (asmeasured by elevated serum transaminase levels) as well as a clincally important significant reduction in discontinuation of MTX treatment for any reason. A trend towards a reduction in stomatitis was demonstrated however this did not reach statistical significance.This updated review with its focus on lower doses of folic acid and folinic acid and updated assessment of risk of bias aimed to give a more precise and more clinically relevant estimate of the benefit of folate supplementation for patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving methotrexate.
 This meta‐analysis demonstrated a clinically and statistically significant prevention of bone loss at the lumbar spine and forearm with vitamin D and calcium in corticosteroid treated patients. Because of low toxicity and cost all patients being started on corticosteroids should receive prophylactic therapy with calcium and vitamin D.
 Intravenous Iloprost is effective in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to scleroderma at decreasing the frequency and severity of attacks and preventing or healing digital ulcers. The effect seems to be prolonged after the intravenous infusion is given. Oral Iloprost may have less efficacy than intravenous Iloprost. However, Cisaprost has minimal or no efficacy when given orally for the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to scleroderma.
 Ketanserin may have some efficacy in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to scleroderma. Overall, ketanserin is not significantly different from placebo for the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon except for some decrease in the duration of attacks and more subjects improved on ketanserin compared to placebo. However, there were more side effects, and the frequency of attacks actually favored placebo. It can be concluded that ketanserin treatment in Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to scleroderma is not clinically beneficial.
 There is insufficient evidence either to support or to refute the use of Cyclofenil in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to scleroderma.
 Prazosin is modestly effective in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to scleroderma.
 MTX has a substantial clinical and statistically significant benefit compared to placebo in the short term treatment of people with RA although its use is associated with a high withdrawal rate due to adverse events.
 Sulfasalazine appears to have a clinically and statistically significant benefit on the disease activity of patients with RA. Its effects on overall health status and radiological progression are not clear at this time, but would appear to be modest.
 Hydroxychloroquine appears to be efficacious for the treatment of RA. Its overall effect appears to be moderate, but its low toxicity profile should be considered when treating patients with RA.
 The equal effectiveness and tolerability of new atypical drugs in comparison with clozapine is not yet demonstrated. Lack of statistical power to determine the comparative efficacy and effectiveness of newer atypical drugs makes it difficult to judge whether newer drugs are more effective, less effective or equivalent. Trials of sufficient power, with longer duration, measuring clinically important outcomes, are needed to assess the true comparative clinical effectiveness, tolerability and cost effectiveness of newer drugs in relation to clozapine.
 Quetiapine is effective for the treatment of schizophrenia, but it is not much different from first‐generation antipsychotics and risperidone with respect to treatment withdrawal and efficacy. In comparison to first‐generation antipsychotics and risperidone, quetiapine has a lower risk of movement disorders but higher risks of dizziness, dry mouth and sleepiness. More clearly reported pragmatic randomised controlled trials should be carried out to determine its position in everyday clinical practice. Studies of medium and long‐term effects, including cost‐effectiveness, quality of life, social functioning and service utilisation, in comparison with the effects of typical and atypical antipsychotics should be priority areas.
 Data are inconclusive and provide no evidence for or against cognitive rehabilitation as a treatment for schizophrenia.
 It is not clear whether there are any advantages of lipid‐based formulations if conventional amphotericin B is administered under optimal circumstances and their high cost prohibits routine use in most settings. There is a need for large trials comparing lipid‐based formulations of amphotericin B with conventional amphotericin B given in the same dose, with routine premedication for prevention of infusion‐related toxicity, and with supplementation with fluid, potassium and magnesium for prevention of nephrotoxicity.
 There is not enough evidence to assess the equivalence of effect between fully intermittent, rifampicin‐containing short‐course chemotherapy and similar daily therapy in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. Larger randomized studies are required to establish the equivalence of fully intermittent, short‐course chemotherapy, with daily regimens.
 There is currently no evidence of benefit from corticosteroids, but the small number of participants means it is difficult to exclude an effect on death in either direction. Data on clinical complications are difficult to assess.
 Injected cholera vaccines appear to be safe and relatively more effective than usually realized. Protection against cholera persists for up to two years following a single dose of vaccine, and for three years with an annual booster. However, they have been superseded by oral vaccines.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the effectiveness of any plague vaccine, or the relative effectiveness between vaccines and their tolerability. Circumstantial data from observational studies suggest that killed types may be more effective and have fewer adverse effects than attenuated types of vaccine. No evidence appears to exist on the long‐term effects of any plague vaccine.
 Tick‐borne encephalitis vaccines appear to be highly immunogenic, but the relationship between seroconversion and clinical protection has not been established. Although adverse effects were commonly reported, none were serious or life threatening.
 Ten interventions were found to have some benefit with regard to preventing or reducing the severity of mucositis associated with cancer treatment. The strength of the evidence was variable and implications for practice include consideration that benefits may be specific for certain cancer types and treatment. There is a need for further well designed, and conducted trials with sufficient numbers of participants to perform subgroup analyses by type of disease and chemotherapeutic agent.
 The evidence from the trials reported by Thilander 1984 and Lindner 1989 suggests that removal of premature contacts of the baby teeth is effective in preventing a posterior crossbite from being perpetuated to the mixed dentition and adult teeth. When grinding alone is not effective, using an upper removable expansion plate to expand the top teeth will decrease the risk of a posterior crossbite from being perpetuated to the permanent dentition. The comparisons of treatments made in the trials reported by Mossaz‐Joëlson 1989; Schneidman 1990; Ingervall 1995; Asanza 1997 and Sandikçioglu 1997 were inconclusive so recommendations for clinical practice can not be made based on the results of these trials. However, these trials were small and inadequately powered so further studies, with appropriate sample sizes, would be required to assess the relative effectiveness of these interventions.
 The failure of vitamin C supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin C supplementation is not justified, yet vitamin C may be useful for people exposed to brief periods of severe physical exercise. Regular supplementation trials have shown that vitamin C reduces the duration of colds, but this was not replicated in the few therapeutic trials that have been carried out. Nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin C on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin C is beneficial for them. Further therapeutic RCTs are warranted.
 Most of the included trials had methodological or reporting weaknesses and were heterogeneous in terms of participants, interventions, outcomes, and settings, so we cannot draw any firm conclusions about the effectiveness of the interventions. All of the evaluated interventions would need further investigation before it was possible to recommend them as effective strategies.
 Whilst results from some individual studies suggested a beneficial effect of PGE1, the quality of these studies and of the overall evidence available is insufficient to determine whether or not patients with intermittent claudication derive clinically meaningful benefit from the administration of prostanoids. Further well‐conducted randomised, double blinded trials with a sufficient number of participants to provide statistical power are required to answer this question.
 While vitamin E ‐ which is inexpensive and has had no serious side effects reported with its use ‐ may have beneficial effects, there is insufficient evidence to determine whether it is an effective treatment for intermittent claudication.
 There is little evidence available to evaluate the efficacy of buflomedil for IC. Most trials were excluded due to poor quality. The two included trials showed moderately positive results; these are undermined by publication bias since we know of at least another four unpublished, irretrievable, and inconclusive studies.Buflomedil's benefit is small in relation to safety issues and its narrow therapeutic range.
 Exercise programmes were of significant benefit compared with placebo or usual care in improving walking time and distance in selected patients with leg pain from IC.
 Despite the confirmed beneficial effects of colloids in this review, further studies are still required. There are no studies examining the effects of combination fluid therapy. The primary research outcome was death, for which results were limited; therefore, future studies should pay more attention to short‐term outcomes such as minimising the need for allogenic blood transfusion, complications (organ failure), and length of stay in both the intensive care unit and hospital.
 At present, evidence from randomised‐controlled trials is insufficient to recommend a specific role for vitamin C in the treatment of asthma. Further methodologically strong and large‐scale randomised controlled trials are needed in order to address the question of the effectiveness of vitamin C in asthma.
 Outreach nursing programmes for COPD improved disease‐specific HRQL. However the effect on hospitalisations was heterogeneous, reducing admissions in one study, but increasing them in others, therefore we could not draw firm conclusions for this outcome.
 Robust, well‐designed randomised controlled trials are required in order to test claims by practitioners that AT can have a positive effect on the symptoms of chronic asthma and thereby help people with asthma to reduce medication.
 The present review indicates that there is insufficient evidence to recommend the routine use of inhaled steroids in adults with stable state bronchiectasis. While a therapeutic trial may be justified in adults with difficult to control symptoms and in certain subgroups, this has to be balanced with adverse events especially if high doses are used. No recommendation can be made for the use of ICS in adults during an acute exacerbation or in children (for any state) as there were no studies.
 We found moderate‐quality evidence that nutritional supplementation promotes significant weight gain among patients with COPD, especially if malnourished. Nourished patients may not respond to the same degree to supplemental feeding. We also found a significant change from baseline in fat‐free mass index/fat‐free mass, fat mass/fat mass index, MAMC (as a measure of lean body mass), six‐minute walk test and a significant improvement in skinfold thickness (as measure of fat mass, end score) for all patients. In addition, there were significant improvements in respiratory muscle strength (MIP and MEP) and overall HRQoL as measured by SGRQ in malnourished patients with COPD.These results differ from previous reviews and should be considered in the management of malnourished patients with COPD.
 Using corticosteroids to prevent (or treat) stridor after extubation has not proven effective for neonates or children. However, given the consistent trends towards benefit, this intervention does merit further study, particularly for high risk children or neonates. In adults, multiple doses of corticosteroids begun 12‐24 hours prior to extubation do appear beneficial for patients with a high likelihood of post extubation stridor.
 The evidence summarised in this review is drawn from one large study, and several smaller trials. The findings from the large study indicated that in patients who survive up to three months post‐surgery, there were significantly better health status and lung function outcomes in favour of surgery compared with usual medical care. Patients identified post hoc as being of high risk of death from surgery were those with particularly impaired lung function and poor diffusing capacity and/or homogenous emphysema. Further research should address the effect of this intervention on exacerbations and rate of decline in lung function and health status.
 There is insufficient evidence to support the use of manual therapies for patients with asthma. There is a need to conduct adequately‐sized RCTs that examine the effects of manual therapies on clinically relevant outcomes. Future trials should maintain observer blinding for outcome assessments, and report on the costs of care and adverse events. Currently, there is insufficient evidence to support or refute the use of manual therapy for patients with asthma.
 There are now a small number of trials assessing different surgical techniques with inactive and active control treatments. The studies assembled in the review have failed to demonstrate consistent effects in favour of surgery and do not provide convincing evidence to support its use in sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome. Short‐term outcomes are unlikely to consistently identify suitable candidates for surgery. Long‐term follow‐up of patients who undergo surgical correction of upper airway obstruction is required. This would help to determine whether surgery is a curative intervention, or whether there is a tendency for the signs and symptoms of sleep apnoea to re‐assert themselves, prompting patients to seek further treatment for sleep apnoea.
 Use of limited asthma education as it has been practiced does not appear to improve health outcomes in adults with asthma although perceived symptoms may improve. Provision of information in the emergency department may be effective, but this needs to be confirmed.
 There is some evidence that mass media can prevent the uptake of smoking in young people, however the evidence is not strong and contains a number of methodological flaws.
 Group therapy is better for helping people stop smoking than self help, and other less intensive interventions. There is not enough evidence to evaluate whether groups are more effective, or cost‐effective, than intensive individual counselling. There is not enough evidence to support the use of particular psychological components in a programme beyond the support and skills training normally included.
 We have not shown that hypnotherapy has a greater effect on six‐month quit rates than other interventions or no treatment. There is not enough evidence to show whether hypnotherapy could be as effective as counselling treatment. The effects of hypnotherapy on smoking cessation claimed by uncontrolled studies were not confirmed by analysis of randomized controlled trials.
 Data from two small studies suggest that the combination of nicotine and mecamylamine may be superior to nicotine alone in promoting smoking cessation. However, these results require confirmation in larger studies before the treatment can be recommended clinically.
 Published evidence does not support the use of piracetam in the treatment of people with dementia or cognitive impairment. Although effects were found on global impression of change, no benefit was shown by any of the more specific measures of cognitive function.The evidence indicates a need for further evaluation of piracetam.
 Evidence from randomized trials does not support the use of lecithin in the treatment of patients with dementia. A moderate effect cannot be ruled out, but results from the small trials to date do not indicate priority for a large randomized trial.
 Progestogens administered from day 15 or 19 to day 26 of the cycle offer no advantage over other medical therapies such as danazol, tranexamic acid, non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the IUS in the treatment of menorrhagia in women with ovulatory cycles. Progestogen therapy for 21 days of the cycle results in a significant reduction in menstrual blood loss, although women found the treatment less acceptable than intrauterine levonorgestrel. This regimen of progestogen may have a role in the short‐term treatment of menorrhagia.
 Danazol appears to be an effective treatment for heavy menstrual bleeding compared to other medical treatments. The use of Danazol may be limited by its side effect profile, its acceptability to women and the need for continuing treatment. The small number of trials, and the small sample sizes of the included trials limit the recommendations for clinical care. Further studies are unlikely in the future and this review will not be updated unless further studies are identified.
 There is no evidence of an effect of unopposed oestrogen or combined oestrogen with progestogen on body weight and on the BMI increase normally experienced at the time of menopause. Insufficient evidence currently exists to enable examination of the effect of HRT on waist‐hip ratio, fat mass or skinfold thickness.
 The limited data we found available suggests that this is no evidence of a difference in outcomes between the oral contraceptive pill (OCP) studied and GnRH analogue was as effective as a GnRH analogue in treating for endometriosis‐associated painful symptoms of endometriosis. However, the lack of studies with larger sample sizes, or focusing on other comparable treatments is concerning and further research is needed to fully evaluate fully the role of OCPs oral contraceptive pills in managing symptoms associated with endometriosis.
 Inhaled antibiotic treatment probably improves lung function and reduces exacerbation rate, but a pooled estimate of the level of benefit is not possible. The best evidence is for inhaled tobramycin. More evidence, from trials of longer duration, is needed to determine whether this benefit is maintained and to determine the significance of development of antibiotic‐resistant organisms.
 These data do not support the use of tamoxifen for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Further research on the effects of tamoxifen in hepatocellular carcinoma does not seem warranted.
 Counselling is associated with significantly greater clinical effectiveness in short‐term mental health outcomes compared to usual care, but provides no additional advantages in the long‐term. Participants were satisfied with counselling. Although some types of health care utilisation may be reduced, counselling does not seem to reduce overall healthcare costs. The generalisability of these findings to settings outside the United Kingdom is unclear.
 The potential benefits of adding a benzodiazepine to an antidepressant must be balanced judiciously against possible harms including development of dependence and accident proneness, on the one hand, and against continued suffering following no response and drop out, on the other.
 CBT is effective in reducing the symptoms of fatigue at post‐treatment compared with usual care, and may be more effective in reducing fatigue symptoms compared with other psychological therapies. The evidence base at follow‐up is limited to a small group of studies with inconsistent findings. There is a lack of evidence on the comparative effectiveness of CBT alone or in combination with other treatments, and further studies are required to inform the development of effective treatment programmes for people with CFS.
 We have found some evidence to support the policy of using carbamazepine as the first treatment of choice in partial epilepsies, but no evidence to support the choice of valproate in generalized epilepsies, but confidence intervals are too wide to confirm equivalence. Misclassification of people with epilepsy may have confounded our results, and has important implications for the design and conduct of future trials.
 Lamotrigine was significantly less likely to be withdrawn than carbamazepine but results for time to first seizure suggested that carbamazepine may be superior in terms of seizure control. Trials were of too short a duration to measure important seizure outcomes such as time to 12 month remission. Further trials are needed in which longer‐term outcome is assessed as well as measures such as psychosocial outcome and quality of life.
 We are unable to make any evidence‐based recommendations as we found no comparative studies assessing the effectiveness of tamoxifen in women with recurrent ovarian cancer. There is limited evidence on anti‐tumour activity from phase 2 studies, but these contain no data on the effect of tamoxifen on symptom control, QOL or the prolongation of life.
 Behavioural interventions for young women which aim to promote sexual behaviours protective of STI transmission can be effective, primarily at encouraging condom use. Future evaluations should include a greater focus on HPV and its link to cervical cancer, with long‐term follow‐up to assess impact on behaviour change, rates of HPV infection and progression to cervical cancer. Studies should use an RCT design where possible with integral process evaluation and cost‐effectiveness analysis where appropriate. Given the predominance of USA studies in this systematic review evaluations conducted in other countries would be particularly useful.
 There is no evidence to support the use of adjuvant progestagen therapy in the primary treatment of endometrial cancer.
 A standardized preparation of Pygeum africanum may be a useful treatment option for men with lower urinary symptoms consistent with benign prostatic hyperplasia. However, the reviewed studies were small in size, were of short duration, used varied doses and preparations and rarely reported outcomes using standardized validated measures of efficacy. Additional placebo‐controlled trials are needed as well as studies that compare Pygeum africanum to active controls that have been convincingly demonstrated to have beneficial effects on lower urinary tract symptoms related to BPH. These trials should be of sufficient size and duration to detect important differences in clinically relevant endpoints and use standardized urologic symptom scale scores.
 High‐dose methylprednisolone steroid therapy is the only pharmacologic therapy shown to have efficacy in a phase three randomized trial when administered within eight hours of injury. One trial indicates additional benefit by extending the maintenance dose from 24 to 48 hours, if start of treatment must be delayed to between three and eight hours after injury. There is an urgent need for more randomized trials of pharmacologic therapy for acute spinal cord injury.
 Pool fences should have a dynamic and secure gate and should isolate the pool from the house (that is, four‐sided fencing). Legislation should require isolation fencing with secure, self‐latching gates for all pools, public, semi‐public and private. Legislation should require fencing of both newly constructed and existing pools and include enforcement provisions, in order to be effective.
 There is no evidence that hypothermia is beneficial in the treatment of head injury. Hypothermia may be effective in reducing death and unfavourable outcomes for traumatic head injured patients, but significant benefit was only found in low quality trials. Low quality trials have a tendency to overestimate the treatment effect. The high quality trials found no decrease in the likelihood of death with hypothermia, but this finding was not statistically significant and could be due to the play of chance. Hypothermia should not be used except in the context of a high quality randomised controlled trial with good allocation concealment.
 Mannitol therapy for raised ICP may have a beneficial effect on mortality when compared to pentobarbital treatment, but may have a detrimental effect on mortality when compared to hypertonic saline. ICP‐directed treatment shows a small beneficial effect compared to treatment directed by neurological signs and physiological indicators. There are insufficient data on the effectiveness of pre‐hospital administration of mannitol.
 There is no evidence that community‐based screening of asymptomatic older people results in improvements in vision.
 Smoking cessation interventions in pregnancy reduce the proportion of women who continue to smoke in late pregnancy, and reduce low birthweight and preterm birth. Smoking cessation interventions in pregnancy need to be implemented in all maternity care settings. Given the difficulty many pregnant women addicted to tobacco have quitting during pregnancy, population‐based measures to reduce smoking and social inequalities should be supported.
 Good trials in low‐income settings are warranted. In high‐income settings, there is limited research which has not shown an advantage of antibiotics or antiseptics over simply keeping the cord clean. Quality of evidence is low.
 The decision to prescribe antibiotics for women with PROM is not clearcut. Benefits in some short‐term outcomes (prolongation of pregnancy, infection, less abnormal cerebral ultrasound before discharge from hospital) should be balanced against a lack of evidence of benefit for others, including perinatal mortality, and longer term outcomes. If antibiotics are prescribed it is unclear which would be the antibiotic of choice.Co‐amoxiclav should be avoided in women at risk of preterm delivery due to increased risk of neonatal necrotising enterocolitis.
 Calcium supplementation appears to approximately halve the risk of pre‐eclampsia, to reduce the risk of preterm birth and to reduce the occurrence of the composite outcome 'death or serious morbidity'. We considered the latter benefit to outweigh the increase in HELLP syndrome, which was small in absolute numbers. There were no other clear benefits, or harms.
 Magnesium sulphate is ineffective at delaying birth or preventing preterm birth, and its use is associated with an increased mortality for the infant. Any further trials should be of high quality, large enough to assess serious morbidity and mortality, compare different dose regimens, and provide neurodevelopmental status of the child.
 There is no evidence to support the use of abdominal decompression in normal pregnancies. Future research should be directed towards the use of abdominal decompression during labour, and during complicated pregnancies.
 Use of hands and knees position for 10 minutes twice daily to correct occipito‐posterior position of the fetus in late pregnancy cannot be recommended as an intervention. This is not to suggest that women should not adopt this position if they find it comfortable. The use of position in labour was associated with reduced backache. Further trials are needed to assess the effects on other labour outcomes.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the use of piracetam for fetal distress in labour.
 There have been no contemporary trials of operative versus conservative management of suspected fetal distress. In settings without modern obstetric facilities, a policy of operative delivery in the event of meconium‐stained liquor or fetal heart rate changes has not been shown to reduce perinatal mortality.
 The combination of gentamicin and clindamycin is appropriate for the treatment of endometritis. Regimens with activity against penicillin‐resistant anaerobic bacteria are better than those without. There is no evidence that any one regimen is associated with fewer side‐effects. Once uncomplicated endometritis has clinically improved with intravenous therapy, oral therapy is not needed.[Note: the two citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 Sucrose is safe and effective for reducing procedural pain from single events. An optimal dose could not be identified due to inconsistency in effective sucrose dosage among studies. Further investigation on repeated administration of sucrose in neonates and the use of sucrose in combination with other non‐pharmacological and pharmacological interventions is needed. Sucrose use in extremely preterm, unstable, ventilated (or a combination of these) neonates needs to be addressed. Additional research is needed to determine the minimally effective dose of sucrose during a single painful procedure and the effect of repeated sucrose administration on immediate (pain intensity) and long‐term (neurodevelopmental) outcomes.
 This review does not support the use of thyroid hormones in preterm infants to reduce neonatal mortality, improve neurodevelopmental outcome or to reduce the severity of respiratory distress syndrome. An analyses of data from one study (van Wassenaer 1997) which showed benefits in infants 24‐25 weeks gestation was not prespecified and should be treated with caution.The small number of infants included in trials incorporated in this review limits the power of the meta‐analysis to detect clinically important differences in neonatal outcomes.Future trials are warranted and should be of sufficient size to detect clinically important differences in neurodevelopmental outcomes. They should consider enrolling those infants most likely to benefit from thyroid hormone treatment such as infants born at less than 27 weeks gestation.
 This review found a significant decrease in length of stay in preterm infants receiving a NNS intervention. The review did not reveal a consistent benefit of NNS with respect to other major clinical variables (weight gain, energy intake, heart rate, oxygen saturation, intestinal transit time, age at full oral feeds and behavioral state).The review identified other positive clinical outcomes of NNS: transition from tube to bottle feeds and better bottle feeding performance. No negative outcomes were reported in any of the studies. There were also a number of limitations of the presently available evidence related to the design of the studies, outcome variability, and lack of long‐term data. Based on the available evidence, NNS in preterm infants would appear to have some clinical benefit. It does not appear to have any short‐term negative effects.
 Theophylline is more effective than mask CPAP for preterm infants with apnea. Since CPAP is no longer administered by mask, the results of this review have limited importance for current clinical practice. Further evaluation of the benefits and harms of CPAP vs theophylline for preterm infants with apnea requires further trials in which CPAP is administered by current methods.
 Administration of prophylactic D‐penicillamine in preterm infants does not prevent acute or severe ROP, death or neurodevelopmental delay. D‐penicillamine cannot be recommended for the prevention of ROP based on the available evidence.
 During at least the first week after birth, low birth weight babies should be provided with a carefully regulated thermal environment that is near the thermoneutral point. For LBW babies in incubators, this can be achieved by adjusting incubator temperature to maintain an anterior abdominal skin temperature of at least 36C, using either servo‐control or frequent manual adjustment of incubator air temperature.
 The results of this systematic review provide additional evidence linking routine exposure to high ambient oxygen in the early neonatal period to the development of ROP in preterm/LBW infants. However, due to small numbers and historical oxygen monitoring techniques, they provide little assistance to clinicians with regard to the most appropriate method of oxygen weaning, gradual or abrupt, in modern neonatal care settings.
 The results of this systematic review do not provide strong evidence for either the benefits or harms of early oxygen weaning in preterm/LBW infants. Future research should be directed toward addressing the question of what are the most appropriate target levels of oxygenation, in both the early and late neonatal periods, rather than whether oxygen should be weaned early or late.
 The results of this systematic review confirm that (the now historical) policy of unrestricted, unmonitored oxygen therapy has potential harms without clear benefits. However, the question of what is the optimal target range for maintaining blood oxygen levels in preterm/LBW infants was not answered by the data available for inclusion in this review.
 Preterm infants no longer requiring endotracheal intubation and IPPV should be directly extubated without a trial of ETT CPAP.
 Prophylactic intratracheal administration of protein free synthetic surfactant to infants at risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome has been demonstrated to improve clinical outcome. Infants who receive prophylactic protein free SS have a decreased risk of pneumothorax, a decreased risk of pulmonary interstitial emphysema, and a decreased risk of neonatal mortality. Infants who receive prophylactic protein free SS have an increased risk of developing patent ductus arteriosus and pulmonary hemorrhage.
 Although hemodynamic disturbances play a role in the overall pathogenesis of respiratory distress syndrome, the specific contribution of early congestive heart failure (unrelated to hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus) does not appear to be a significant factor in RDS. Treatment with digoxin has no proven value in infants solely affected with RDS.
 Endarterectomy is of some benefit for 50% to 69% symptomatic stenosis and highly beneficial for 70% to 99% stenosis without near‐occlusion. Benefit in patients with carotid near‐occlusion is marginal in the short‐term and uncertain in the long‐term. These results are generalisable only to surgically‐fit patients operated on by surgeons with low complication rates (less than 7% risk of stroke and death). Benefit from endarterectomy depends not only on the degree of carotid stenosis, but also on several other factors, including the delay to surgery after the presenting event.
 Cyclosporine has an important clinical benefit in the short‐term (up to one year) treatment of patients with progressive rheumatoid arthritis.
 We conclude that further randomized, placebo‐controlled, double‐blind trials should be carried out to compare cyclosporine, azathioprine and benzathine‐penicillin versus placebo in order to make the results generalizable and comparable.
 Care based on crisis intervention principles, with or without an ongoing home care package, appears to be a viable and acceptable way of treating people with serious mental illnesses. If this approach is to be widely implemented it would seem that more evaluative studies are still needed.
 We included 25 RCTs and found no compelling evidence to support any one psychosocial treatment over another to reduce substance use (or improve mental state) by people with serious mental illnesses. Furthermore, methodological difficulties exist which hinder pooling and interpreting results; high drop out rates, varying fidelity of interventions, varying outcome measures, settings and samples and comparison groups may have received higher levels of treatment than standard care. Further studies are required which address these concerns and improve the evidence in this important area.
 Polyclonal IVIG reduced mortality among adults with sepsis but this benefit was not seen in trials with low risk of bias. Among neonates, no reduction in mortality was seen with polyclonal IVIG. Most of the trials were small and the totality of the evidence is insufficient to support a robust conclusion of benefit. Adjunctive therapy with monoclonal IVIGs remains experimental.
 The  vaccine was strongly protective for the first year in children over five and adults, but its efficacy beyond the first year could not be determined with precision. Children aged one to five years in low‐income countries were also protected but the efficacy in this age group could not be determined. While the vaccine was strongly protective among children aged three months to five years in Finland, the efficacy in narrower age strata could not be determined. The sample size was too small to draw conclusions on the effect of booster doses.
 Clinicians need to evaluate whether the minimal short‐term benefit from longer treatment of antibiotics is worth exposing children to a longer course of antibiotics.
 Point of care computer reminders generally achieve small to modest improvements in provider behaviour. A minority of interventions showed larger effects, but no specific reminder or contextual features were significantly associated with effect magnitude. Further research must identify design features and contextual factors consistently associated with larger improvements in provider behaviour if computer reminders are to succeed on more than a trial and error basis.
 These results indicate that ligation and valvuloplasty may have produced a moderate and sustained improvement for seven to ten years after surgery in patients with mild to moderate DVI caused by primary valvular incompetence. However, there is insufficient evidence to recommend the treatment to this subgroup of patients, as the trials were small, used different methods of valvuloplasty and different methods of assessment.
 There is some evidence to suggest that intra‐arterial rt‐PA is more effective than intra‐arterial streptokinase or intravenous rt‐PA in improving vessel patency in people with peripheral arterial occlusion. There was no evidence that rt‐PA was more effective than urokinase for patients with peripheral arterial occlusion and some evidence that initial lysis may be more rapid with rt‐PA, depending on the regime. Incidences of haemorrhagic complications were not statistically significantly greater with rt‐PA than with other regimes. However, all of the findings come from small studies and a general paucity of results means that it is not possible to draw clear conclusions.
 Fixed dose LMWH is more effective and safer than adjusted dose UFH for the initial treatment of VTE. Compared to UFH, LMWH significantly reduced the incidence of thrombotic complications, the occurrence of major haemorrhage during initial treatment and overall mortality at follow up.
 The type of dressing applied beneath compression has not been shown to affect ulcer healing. For the majority of dressing types there was insufficient data to allow us to draw strong conclusions except for hydrocolloid compared with a low adherent dressing. The result of the meta‐analysis indicate no significant difference in healing rates between hydrocolloid dressings and simple, low‐adherent dressings when used beneath compression. Decisions regarding which dressing to apply should be based on local costs of dressings and practitioner or patient preferences.
 This review shows that the treatment of patients with COPD with salmeterol 50 mcg produces modest increases in lung function. There were varying effects for other important outcomes such as health related quality of life or reduction in symptoms. However, there was a consistent reduction in exacerbations which may help people with COPD who suffer frequent deterioration of symptoms prompting healthcare utilisation. The strength of evidence for the use of salmeterol 100 mcg, formoterol 12 mcg, 18 mcg, 24 mcg was insufficient to provide clear indications for practice.
 CPAP is effective in reducing symptoms of sleepiness and improving quality of life measures in people with moderate and severe obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA). It is more effective than oral appliances in reducing respiratory disturbances in these people but subjective outcomes are more equivocal. Certain people tend to prefer oral appliances to CPAP where both are effective. This could be because they offer a more convenient way of controlling OSA. Short‐term data indicate that CPAP leads to lower blood pressure than control. Long‐term data are required for all outcomes in order to determine whether the initial benefits seen in short‐term clinical trials persist.
 Episodic high dose inhaled corticosteroids provide a partially effective strategy for the treatment of mild episodic viral wheeze of childhood. There is no current evidence to favour maintenance low dose inhaled corticosteroids in the prevention and management of episodic mild viral induced wheeze.
 Itraconazole modifies the immunologic activation associated with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis and improves clinical outcome, at least over the period of 16 weeks. Adrenal suppression with inhaled corticosteroids and itraconazole is a potential concern.
 Caffeine appears to improve airways function modestly, for up to four hours, in people with asthma. People may need to avoid caffeine for at least four hours prior to lung function testing, as caffeine ingestion could cause misinterpretation of the results. Drinking caffeinated coffee before taking exhaled nitric oxide measurements does not appear to affect the results of the test, but more studies are needed to confirm this.
 Oral steroids improved the chest X‐ray and a global score of CXR, symptoms and spirometry over 3‐24 months. However, there is little evidence of an improvement in lung function. There are limited data beyond two years to indicate whether oral steroids have any modifying effect on long‐term disease progression. Oral steroids may be of benefit for patients with Stage 2 and 3 disease with moderate to severe or progressive symptoms or CXR changes.
 Current evidence supports the use of CBA in patients with severe acute asthma who present to the emergency department to increase their pulmonary functions and reduce hospitalisation. Moreover, CBA treatment appears to be safe and well tolerated in patients who receive it.
 This review demonstrated that physical training can improve cardiopulmonary fitness and was well tolerated among people with asthma in the included studies. As such, people with stable asthma should be encouraged to partake in regular exercise training, without fear of symptom exacerbation.
 Education in asthma self‐management which involves self‐monitoring by either peak expiratory flow or symptoms, coupled with regular medical review and a written action plan improves health outcomes for adults with asthma. Training programmes that enable people to adjust their medication using a written action plan appear to be more effective than other forms of asthma self‐management.
 Standard self‐help materials may increase quit rates compared to no intervention, but the effect is likely to be small. We failed to find evidence that they have an additional benefit when used alongside other interventions such as advice from a healthcare professional, or nicotine replacement therapy. There is evidence that materials that are tailored for individual smokers are more effective than untailored materials, although the absolute size of effect is still small.
 Whilst four suitable randomized controlled trials looking at reminiscence therapy for dementia were found, several were very small studies, or were of relatively low quality, and each examined different types of reminiscence work. Although there are a number of promising indications, in view of the limited number and quality of studies, the variation in types of reminiscence work reported and the variation in results between studies, the review highlights the urgent need for more and better designed trials so that more robust conclusions may be drawn.
 There was no evidence of a significant difference in rates of clinical pregnancy, live birth or miscarriage in women with clomiphene‐resistant PCOS undergoing LOD compared to other medical treatments. The reduction in multiple pregnancy rates in women undergoing LOD makes this option attractive. However, there are ongoing concerns about the long‐term effects of LOD on ovarian function.
 Endometrial thinning prior to hysteroscopic surgery in the early proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle for menorrhagia improves both the operating conditions for the surgeon and short term post‐operative outcome. Gonadotrophin‐releasing hormone analogues produce slightly more consistent endometrial thinning than danazol, though both agents produce satisfactory results. The effect of these agents on longer term post‐operative outcomes such as amenorrhoea and the need for further surgical intervention reduces with time.
 Cyproterone acetate combined with estradiol results in a subjective improvement in hirsutism compared to placebo. Clinical differences in outcome between cyproterone acetate and other medical therapies were not demonstrated in the studies included in this review. This may be because of the small size of the studies, lack of standardized assessment and lack of objective determinants of improvement in hirsutism. The endocrinological effects of the different drug therapies reflect the mode of action. Larger carefully designed studies are needed to compare efficacy and safety profiles between drug therapies for hirsutism.
 There is evidence to show that therapy with dornase alfa over a one‐month period is associated with an improvement in lung function in CF; results from a trial lasting six months also showed the same effect. Therapy over a two‐year period (based on one trial) significantly improved FEV1 in children and there was a non‐significant reduction in the risk of infective exacerbations. Voice alteration and rash appear to be the only adverse events reported with increased frequency in randomised controlled trials.
 Drugs are effective in the treatment of dysthymia with no differences between and within drug classes. Tricyclic antidepressants are more likely to cause adverse events and dropouts. As dysthymia is a chronic condition, there remains little information on quality of life and medium or long‐term outcome.
 There is insufficient evidence to assist clinicians in a rational approach to antispastic treatment for SCI. Further research is urgently needed to improve the scientific basis of patient care.
 Postoperative injections of 5‐FU are now rarely used as a planned series but are increasingly used on an ad hoc basis. This presumably reflects an aspect of the treatment that is unacceptable to both patients and doctors. None of the trials reported on the participants' perspective of care which constitutes a serious omission for an invasive treatment such as this.
 Overall, psychosocial and psychological interventions significantly reduce the number of women who develop postpartum depression. Promising interventions include the provision of intensive, professionally‐based postpartum home visits, telephone‐based peer support, and interpersonal psychotherapy.
 Moderate‐quality evidence suggested that acupuncture or exercise, tailored to the stage of pregnancy, significantly reduced evening pelvic pain or lumbo‐pelvic pain more than usual care alone, acupuncture was significantly more effective than exercise for reducing evening pelvic pain, and a 16‐ to 20‐week training program was no more successful than usual prenatal care at preventing pelvic or LBP. Low‐quality evidence suggested that exercise significantly reduced pain and disability from LBP.There was low‐quality evidence from single trials for other outcomes because of high risk of bias and sparse data; clinical heterogeneity precluded pooling. Publication bias and selective reporting cannot be ruled out.Physiotherapy, OMT, acupuncture, a multi‐modal intervention, or the addition of a rigid pelvic belt to exercise seemed to relieve pelvic or back pain more than usual care alone. Acupuncture was more effective than physiotherapy at relieving evening lumbo‐pelvic pain and disability and improving pain and function when it was started at 26‐ rather than 20‐weeks' gestation, although the effects were small.There was no significant difference in LBP and function for different support belts, exercise, neuro emotional technique or spinal manipulation (SMT), or in evening pelvic pain between deep and superficial acupuncture.Very low‐quality evidence suggested a specially‐designed pillow may reduce night‐time LBP.Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimates of effect and is likely to change the estimates.  Future research would benefit from the introduction of an agreed classification system that can be used to categorise women according to presenting symptoms.
 All women should be offered support to breastfeed their babies to increase the duration and exclusivity of breastfeeding. Support is likely to be more effective in settings with high initiation rates, so efforts to increase the uptake of breastfeeding should be in place. Support may be offered either by professional or lay/peer supporters, or a combination of both. Strategies that rely mainly on face‐to‐face support are more likely to succeed. Support that is only offered reactively, in which women are expected to initiate the contact, is unlikely to be effective; women should be offered ongoing visits on a scheduled basis so they can predict that support will be available. Support should be tailored to the needs of the setting and the population group.
 Dietary supplements of fibre in the form of bran or wheat fibre are likely to help women experiencing constipation in pregnancy. If the problem fails to resolve, stimulant laxatives are likely to prove more effective.
 While there is no doubt that penicillin is effective in the treatment of syphilis in pregnancy and the prevention of congenital syphilis, uncertainty remains about what are the optimal treatment regimens.Further studies are needed to evaluate treatment failure cases with currently recommended regimens and this should include an assessment of the role of HIV infection in cases of prenatal syphilis treatment failure. The effectiveness of various antibiotic regimens for the treatment of primary and secondary syphilis in pregnant women need to be assessed using randomised controlled trials which compare them with existing recommendations. This should include treatment with oral antibiotics which could be particularly relevant in resource‐poor countries where the availability of safe needles and syringes cannot be guaranteed.
 Moderately early corticosteroid therapy (started at 7‐14 days) reduces neonatal mortality and CLD, but at the cost of important short term adverse effects. Limited evidence concerning long term effects is provided by the trials included in this review. The methodological quality of the studies determining the long‐term outcome is limited in some cases, the children have been assessed predominantly before school age, and no study has been sufficiently powered to detect important adverse long‐term neurosensory outcomes. Therefore, given the risk:benefit ratio of short‐term effects and the limited long‐term follow‐up data, it seems appropriate to reserve moderately early corticosteroid treatment to infants who cannot be weaned from mechanical ventilation and to minimise the dose and duration of any course of therapy. More research is urgently needed, including long term follow‐up of survivors included in previous and any future trials, before the benefits and risks of postnatal steroid treatment, including initiation at 7‐14 days, can be reliably assessed (See DART study; Doyle 2000a).
 The benefits of late corticosteroid therapy may not outweigh actual or potential adverse effects. Although there continues to be concern about an increased incidence of adverse neurological outcomes in infants treated with postnatal steroids (see also review of "Early postnatal corticosteroids for preventing chronic lung disease in preterm infants"), this review of postnatal corticosteroid treatment for CLD initiated after seven days of age suggests that late therapy may reduce neonatal mortality without significantly increasing the risk of adverse long‐term neurodevelopmental outcomes. However, the methodological quality of the studies determining the long‐term outcome is limited in some cases; in some studies the surviving children have only been assessed before school age when some important neurological outcomes cannot be determined with certainty, and no study was sufficiently powered to detect increased rates of important adverse long‐term neurosensory outcomes. Given the evidence of both benefits and harms of treatment, and the limitations of the evidence at present, it appears prudent to reserve the use of late corticosteroids to infants who cannot be weaned from mechanical ventilation and to minimise the dose and duration of any course of treatment.
 The benefits of early postnatal corticosteroid treatment (≤ 7 days), particularly dexamethasone, may not outweigh the known or potential adverse effects of this treatment. Although early corticosteroid treatment facilitates extubation and reduces the risk of chronic lung disease and patent ductus arteriosus, it causes short‐term adverse effects including gastrointestinal bleeding, intestinal perforation, hyperglycaemia, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and growth failure. Long‐term follow‐up studies report an increased risk of abnormal neurological examination and cerebral palsy. However, the methodological quality of the studies determining long‐term outcomes is limited in some cases; the surviving children have been assessed predominantly before school age, and no study has been sufficiently powered to detect important adverse long‐term neurosensory outcomes. There is a compelling need for the long‐term follow‐up and reporting of late outcomes, especially neurological and developmental outcomes, among surviving infants who participated in all randomised trials of early postnatal corticosteroid treatment. Hydrocortisone in the doses and regimens used in the reported RCTs has few beneficial or harmful effects and cannot be recommended for prevention of CLD.
 There is not enough evidence to support the administration of furosemide to premature infants treated with indomethacin for symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus. Furosemide appears to be contraindicated in the presence of dehydration in those infants.
 Intratracheal administration of synthetic surfactant to infants with established respiratory distress syndrome has been demonstrated to improve clinical outcome. Infants who are treated with synthetic surfactant have a decreased risk of pneumothorax, a decreased risk of pulmonary interstitial emphysema, a decreased risk of intraventricular hemorrhage, a decreased risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia, a decreased risk of neonatal mortality, a decreased risk of mortality prior to hospital discharge and at 1 year of age. Infants who receive synthetic surfactant treatment for established RDS have an increased risk of apnea of prematurity.
 Prophylactic application of topical ointment increases the risk of coagulase negative staphylococcal infection and any nosocomial infection. A trend toward increased risk of any bacterial infection was noted in infants prophylactically treated. Topical ointment should not be used routinely in preterm infants.
 There is currently not enough evidence to support the routine use of mannitol in acute stroke patients. Further trials are needed to confirm or refute whether mannitol is beneficial in acute stroke.
 At 10 mg per day, both clinically important and statistically significant reductions in vertebral, non‐vertebral, hip and wrist fractures were observed for secondary prevention ('gold' level evidence, www.cochranemsk.org). We found no statistically significant results for primary prevention, with the exception of vertebral fractures, for which the reduction was clinically important ('gold' level evidence).
 Cyclophosphamide appears to have a clinically and statistically significant benefit on the disease activity of patients with RA, similar to some disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) such as antimalarials or sulfasalazine, but lower than methotrexate. Toxicity however is severe, limiting its use given the low benefit‐risk ratio compared to other antirheumatic agents.
 Based on the limited data available, moderate‐term prednisone treatment of RA appears to be superior to placebo and comparable to treatment with aspirin or chloroquine in improving several common rheumatoid arthritis disease activity measures.
 Because of the small number of participants included in this review, limitations in the measurement and reporting of outcomes and the differing types of nerve blocks and timing of insertion, it is not possible to determine if nerve blocks confer any significant clinical benefit when compared with other analgesic methods as part of the treatment of a hip fracture. They do, however, reduce the degree of pain experienced by the patient from the hip fracture and subsequent surgery. Further randomised trials with larger numbers of participants and full reporting of clinical outcomes would be justified.
 Sulpiride may be an effective antipsychotic drug but evidence is limited and data relating to claims for its value against negative symptoms is not trial‐based.
 No controlled studies exist that evaluate the value of seclusion or restraint in those with serious mental illness. There are reports of serious adverse effects for these techniques in qualitative reviews. Alternative ways of dealing with unwanted or harmful behaviours need to be developed. Continuing use of seclusion or restraint must therefore be questioned from within well‐designed and reported randomised trials that are generalisable to routine practice.
 Choice of which depot to use must always take into account clinical judgement and the preferences of the recipients of care and their carers. Limited trial data suggests, however, that there are real differences between zuclopenthixol decanoate and other depots and these differences largely favour the former.This review highlights the need for good controlled clinical trials to fully address the effects of zuclopenthixol decanoate for those with schizophrenia. Future studies should report service utilisation data, as well as satisfaction with care and economic outcomes. Duration of such trials should be of a longer duration than the included studies (12 months or more).
 There is no evidence of benefit for antibiotics in NTS diarrhoea in otherwise healthy people. We are uncertain of the effects in very young people, very old people, and in people with severe and extraintestinal disease. A slightly higher number of adverse events were noted in people who received antibiotic treatment for NTS.
 Although topical steroids are considered to be first line treatment, we identified no RCTs that compared steroids with placebo in patients with symptomatic OLP. From the trials in this review there is no evidence that one steroid is any more effective than another. There is weak evidence that aloe vera may reduce the pain of OLP and improve the clinical signs of disease compared to placebo. There is weak and unreliable evidence that cyclosporin may reduce pain and clinical signs of OLP. There is no evidence that other calcineurin inhibitors reduce pain compared to either steroids or placebo. From the 28 trials included in this systematic review, the wide range of interventions compared means there is insufficient evidence to support the effectiveness of any specific treatment as being superior.
 Amantadine and rimantadine have comparable efficacy and effectiveness in relieving or treating symptoms of influenza A in healthy adults, although rimantadine induces fewer adverse effects than amantadine. The effectiveness of both drugs in interrupting transmission is probably low. Resistance of influenza viruses to amantadine is a serious worldwide problem as shown by recent virological surveillances. Both drugs have adverse gastrointestinal (stomach and gut) effects, but amantadine can also have serious effects on the nervous system. They should only be used in an emergency when all other measures fail.
 For acute pouchitis, ciprofloxacin was more effective than metronidazole, while budesonide enemas and metronidazole were similarly effective. For chronic pouchitis, VSL#3 was more effective than placebo. For the prevention of pouchitis, VSL#3 was more effective than placebo. Larger RCTs are needed to determine the optimal agent(s) for the treatment and prevention of pouchitis.
 There is some evidence to suggest that ibuprofen dressings may offer pain relief to people with painful venous leg ulcers. EMLA (5%) appears to provide effective pain relief during the debridement of venous leg ulcers. Further research should consider standardised pain assessment methods and assess both the effect on ulcer healing and the impact of long term use of these treatments.
 The trials evaluating US for venous leg ulcers are small, poor‐quality and heterogeneous. There is no reliable evidence that US hastens healing of venous ulcers. There is a small amount of weak evidence of increased healing with US, but this requires confirmation in larger, high‐quality RCTs. There is no evidence of a benefit associated with low frequency US.
 Antibiotics covering aerobic and aerobic bacteria should be delivered orally and intravenously prior to colorectal surgery.  Antibiotics delivered within this framework will reduce the risk of postoperative SWI by at least 75%.  Further research is required to establish the optimal timing and duration of dosing, and frequency of longer‐term adverse effects such as Clostridium difficile pseudomembranous colitis.
 We have found no evidence of any benefit associated with low level laser therapy on venous leg ulcer healing. One small study suggests that a combination of laser and infrared light may promote the healing of venous ulcers, however more research is needed.
 Nedocromil sodium used before exercise reduces the severity and duration of exercise‐induced bronchoconstriction. This effect appears to be more pronounced in people with severe exercise‐induced bronchoconstriction.
 Immunotherapy reduces asthma symptoms and use of asthma medications and improves bronchial hyper‐reactivity.  One trial found that the size of the benefit is possibly comparable to inhaled steroids. The possibility of local or systemic adverse effects (such as anaphylaxis) must be considered.
 Chemical and physical methods aimed at reducing exposure to house dust mite allergens cannot be recommended. It is doubtful whether further studies, similar to the ones in our review, are worthwhile. If other types of studies are considered, they should be methodologically rigorous and use other methods than those used so far, with careful monitoring of mite exposure and relevant clinical outcomes.
 The results indicate the potential benefits of smoking cessation advice and/or counselling given by nurses, with reasonable evidence that intervention is effective. The evidence for an effect is weaker when interventions are brief and are provided by nurses whose main role is not health promotion or smoking cessation. The challenge will be to incorporate smoking behaviour monitoring and smoking cessation interventions as part of standard practice so that all patients are given an opportunity to be asked about their tobacco use and to be given advice and/or counselling to quit along with reinforcement and follow‐up.
 People with mild, moderate or severe dementia due to Alzheimer's disease treated for periods of 12, 24 or 52 weeks with donepezil experienced benefits in cognitive function, activities of daily living and behaviour. Study clinicians rated global clinical state more positively in treated patients, and measured less decline in measures of global disease severity. There is some evidence that use of donepezil is neither more nor less expensive compared with placebo when assessing total health care resource costs. Benefits on the 10 mg/day dose were marginally larger than on the 5 mg/day dose. Taking into consideration the better tolerability of the 5 mg/day donepezil compared with the 10 mg/day dose, together with the lower cost, the lower dose may be the better option. The debate on whether donepezil is effective continues despite the evidence of efficacy from the clinical studies because the treatment effects are small and are not always apparent in practice.
 Rivastigmine appears to be beneficial for people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. In comparisons with placebo, improvements were seen in the rate of decline of cognitive function, activities of daily living, and severity of dementia with daily doses of 6 to 12 mg. Adverse events were consistent with the cholinergic actions of the drug. A transdermal patch has been tested in one trial, and there is evidence that the lower dose smaller patch is associated with fewer side effects than the capsules or the higher dose larger patch and has comparable efficacy to both. This review has not examined economic data.
 Supplemental enteral tube feeding is widely used throughout the world to improve nutritional status in people with cystic fibrosis. The methods mostly used, nasogastric or gastrostomy feeding, are expensive and may have a negative effect on self‐esteem and body image. Reported use of enteral tube feeding suggests that it results in nutritional and respiratory improvement; but, efficacy has not been fully assessed by randomised controlled trials. It is acknowledged, however, that performing a randomised controlled trial would be difficult due to the ethics of withholding an intervention in a group of patients whose nutritional status necessitates it.
 There is no clear evidence for efficacy of any of the adjuvant and neo‐adjuvant protocols reviewed, but there is some evidence to suggest that adjuvant therapy may be beneficial offering prolonged disease‐free survival. In order to detect a realistic treatment advantage, larger trials with lower risk of systematic error will have to be conducted.
 This review highlights major methodological problems and sources of heterogeneity that not only hamper the comparability of trials but also preclude a conclusion on the efficacy of BR in the adjunct treatment of PD patients with motor complications.
 Medication appears effective in treating SP over the short term (particularly amongst the SSRIs), and the long term. Nevertheless, the possibility of publication bias has to be acknowledged. Additional issues for future research include the use of medication in children and adolescents with SP, SP with comorbid psychiatric disorders, and performance anxiety.
 For patients with hypovolaemia, there is no evidence that albumin reduces mortality when compared with cheaper alternatives such as saline. There is no evidence that albumin reduces mortality in critically ill patients with burns and hypoalbuminaemia. The possibility that there may be highly selected populations of critically ill patients in which albumin may be indicated remains open to question. However, in view of the absence of evidence of a mortality benefit from albumin and the increased cost of albumin compared to alternatives such as saline, it would seem reasonable that albumin should only be used within the context of well concealed and adequately powered randomised controlled trials.
 Continuous antibiotic prophylaxis for 6‐12 months reduced the rate of UTI during prophylaxis when compared to placebo. After prophylaxis two studies showed no difference between groups. There were more adverse events in the antibiotic group. One RCT compared postcoital versus continuous daily ciprofloxacin and found no significant difference in rates of UTIs, suggesting that postcoital treatment could be offered to woman who have UTI associated with sexual intercourse.
 Although acute bacterial conjunctivitis is frequently self limiting, the findings from this updated systematic review suggest that the use of antibiotic eye drops is associated with modestly improved rates of clinical and microbiological remission in comparison to the use of placebo. Use of antibiotic eye drops should therefore be considered in order to speed the resolution of symptoms and infection.
 There is currently no firm evidence on which to base treatment of acute guttate psoriasis. Studies comparing standard treatment modalities, including phototherapy and topical regimens, are required to enable informed decisions on treatment choices to be made.
 There is no evidence from randomised controlled clinical trials to show superiority of systemic therapy over best supportive care / placebo in the treatment of malignant cutaneous melanoma. Given that patients with metastatic melanoma frequently receive systemic therapy, it is our pragmatic view that a future systematic review could compare any systemic treatment, or combination of treatments, to single agent dacarbazine.
 Benefits of screening include a modest reduction in colorectal cancer mortality, a possible reduction in cancer incidence through the detection and removal of colorectal adenomas, and potentially, the less invasive surgery that earlier treatment of colorectal cancers may involve. Harmful effects of screening include the psycho‐social consequences of receiving a false‐positive result, the potentially significant complications of colonoscopy or a false‐negative result, the possibility of overdiagnosis (leading to unnecessary investigations or treatment) and the complications associated with treatment.
 The optimal prophylaxis in colorectal surgery is the combination of graduated compression stockings and low‐dose unfractionated heparin. The unfractionated heparin can be replaced with low molecular weight heparin.
 In the previous version of this review, evidence in support of acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis was considered promising but insufficient. Now, with 12 additional trials, there is consistent evidence that acupuncture provides additional benefit to treatment of acute migraine attacks only or to routine care. There is no evidence for an effect of 'true' acupuncture over sham interventions, though this is difficult to interpret, as exact point location could be of limited importance. Available studies suggest that acupuncture is at least as effective as, or possibly more effective than, prophylactic drug treatment, and has fewer adverse effects. Acupuncture should be considered a treatment option for patients willing to undergo this treatment.
 There is a trend for evidence that corticosteroids of dose range six to 16 mg dexamethasone given intravenously may bring about the resolution of bowel obstruction. Equally, the incidence of side effects in all the included studies is extremely low. Corticosteroids do not seem to affect the length of survival of these patients. Since the last version of this review, no new studies have been conducted. No new studies have been identified for this update and the conclusions are not altered.
 We failed to confirm the hypothesis that STI control is an effective HIV prevention strategy. Improved STI treatment services were shown in one study to reduce HIV incidence in an environment characterised by an emerging HIV epidemic (low and slowly rising prevalence), where STI treatment services were poor and where STIs were highly prevalent; Incidence was not reduced in two other settings. There is no evidence for substantial benefit from a presumptive treatment intervention for all community members. There are, however, other compelling reasons why STI treatment services should be strengthened, and the available evidence suggests that when an intervention is accepted it can substantially improve quality of services provided.
 Behavioral interventions reduce self‐reported unprotected anal sex among MSM. These results indicate that HIV prevention for this population can work and should be supported.Results of previous studies provide a benchmark for expectations in new studies. Meta‐analysis can inform future design and implementation in terms of sample size, target populations, settings, goals for process measures, and intervention content.When effects differ by design variables, which are deliberately selected and planned, awareness of these characteristics may be beneficial to future designs. Researchers designing future small group and individual‐level studies should keep in mind that to date, effects of the greatest magnitude have been observed in studies that used count outcomes and a shorter intervention span (up to 1 month).Among small group and individual‐level studies, effects were also greatest when the comparison condition included minimal to no HIV prevention content. Nevertheless, statistically significant favorable effects were also seen when the comparison condition included standard or other HIV prevention content. Researchers choosing the latter option for new studies should plan for larger sample sizes based on the smaller expected net intervention effect noted above.When effects differ by implementation variables, which become evident as the study is conducted but are not usually selected or planned, caution may be advised so that future studies can reduce bias. Because intervention effects were somewhat stronger (though not statistically significantly so) in studies with a greater attrition in the comparison condition, differential retention may be a threat to validity. Extra effort should be given to retaining participants in comparison conditions.Among community‐level interventions, intervention effects were strongest among studies with random assignment of groups or communities. Therefore the inclusion of studies where assignment of groups or communities was by convenience did not exaggerate the summary effect. The greater effectiveness of interventions including more than 25% non‐gay identifying MSM suggests that when they can be reached, these men may be more responsive than gay‐identified men to risk reduction efforts. Non‐gay identified MSM may have had less exposure to previous prevention messages, so their initial exposure may have a greater impact.The greater effectiveness of interventions that include efforts to promote personal skills such as keeping condoms available and behavioral self‐management indicates that such content merits strong consideration in development and delivery of new interventions for MSM. And the finding that interventions were most effective for majority white populations underscores the critical need for effective interventions for MSM of African and Latino descent.Further research measuring the incidence of HIV and other STDs is needed. Because most studies were conducted among mostly white men in the US and Europe, more evaluations of interventions are needed for African American and Hispanic MSM as well as MSM in the developing world. More research is also needed to further clarify which behavioral strategies (e.g., reducing unprotected anal sex, having oral sex instead of anal sex, reducing number of partners, avoiding serodiscordant partners, strategic positioning, or reducing anal sex even with condom use) are most effective in reducing transmission among MSM, the messages most effective in promoting these behaviors, and the methods and settings in which these messages can be most effectively delivered.
 There is no randomised controlled trial evidence to support the use of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring during pregnancy. Randomized trials with adequate design and sample sizes are needed to evaluate the possible advantages and risks of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring during pregnancy, in particular in hypertensive pregnant women. These trials should evaluate not only clinical outcomes, but also use of health care resources and women's views.[Note: The three citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 Induction of labour using mechanical methods results in similar caesarean section rates as prostaglandins, for a lower risk of hyperstimulation. Mechanical methods do not increase the overall number of women not delivered within 24 hours, however the proportion of multiparous women who did not achieve vaginal delivery within 24 hours was higher when compared with vaginal PGE2. Compared with oxytocin, mechanical methods reduce the risk of caesarean section.
 There is insufficient evidence to recommend perineal shaving for women on admission in labour.
 In previous reviews, we encouraged researchers to undertake well‐designed trials to confirm or refute the effectiveness of IVIG in reducing adverse outcomes in neonates with suspected infection. Such a trial has been undertaken. Results of the INIS trial, which enrolled 3493 infants, carry a heavy weight in the current update of this review, and the undisputed results show no reduction in death or major disability at 2 years of age. Routine administration of IVIG to prevent mortality in infants with suspected or proven neonatal infection is not recommended.
 At the present time, anticonvulsant therapy to term infants in the immediate period following perinatal asphyxia cannot be recommended for routine clinical practice, other than in the treatment of prolonged or frequent clinical seizures. Any future studies should be of sufficient size to have the power to detect clinically important reductions in mortality and severe neurodevelopmental disability.
 The available trial data suggest that advancing enteral feed volumes at slow rather than faster rates does not reduce the risk of necrotising enterocolitis in very preterm or VLBW infants. Advancing the volume of enteral feeds at slow rates results in several days delay in regaining birth weight and establishing full enteral feeds but the long term clinical importance of these effects is unclear. The applicability of these findings to extremely preterm, extremely low birth weight or growth restricted infants is limited. Further randomised controlled trials in these populations may be warranted to resolve this uncertainty.
 Dopamine is more effective than dobutamine in the short term treatment of systemic hypotension in preterm infants. There was no evidence of an effect on the incidence of adverse neuroradiological sequelae (severe periventricular haemorrhage and/or periventricular leucomalacia), or on the incidence of tachycardia. However, in the absence of data confirming long term benefit and safety of dopamine compared to dobutamine, no firm recommendations can be made regarding the choice of drug to treat hypotension.
 There is currently insufficient information to evaluate the effectiveness of prophylactic nasal CPAP in very preterm infants. Neither of the included studies reviewed showed evidence of benefit in reducing the use of IPPV. The tendency for some adverse outcomes to be increased is of concern and further multicentre randomized controlled trials are needed to clarify this.
 There was no evidence of significant benefit or harm from drugs modulating excitatory amino acid action. Reduction of death or dependence by 8% or more has been excluded for gavestinel and lubeluzole, which contribute most of the data for this review. However, mechanistic understanding of neuroprotection is too poor to extrapolate from these two failed development plans to all glutamate modulators. Further clinical trials of neuroprotective agents remain justified, since confidence limits around estimates of effect remain wide for most agents, and cannot reliably exclude benefit. Although numbers of patients are too small to confirm or refute a trend towards increased mortality with some NMDA antagonists, further commercial development of these agents is exceedingly unlikely.
 The current evidence does not support the use of antifibrinolytic drugs in the treatment of people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, even in those who have concomitant treatment strategies to prevent cerebral ischaemia. Results on short‐term treatment are promising, but not conclusive. Further randomised trials evaluating short‐term antifibrinolytic treatment are needed to evaluate its effectiveness.
 The thienopyridine derivatives are at least as effective as aspirin in preventing serious vascular events in patients at high risk, and possibly somewhat more so. However, the size of any additional benefit is uncertain and could be negligible. Clopidogrel has a more favourable adverse effects profile than ticlopidine and so is the thienopyridine of choice. It should be used as an alternative to aspirin in patients genuinely intolerant of or allergic to aspirin.
 There is currently no evidence from randomised trials to support routine use of physical or pharmacological strategies to reduce temperature in patients with acute stroke. Large randomised clinical trials are needed to study the effect of such strategies.
 The evidence from the five small placebo‐controlled trials included in this review does not support the use of ultrasound in the treatment of acute ankle sprains. The potential treatment effects of ultrasound appear to be generally small and of probably of limited clinical importance, especially in the context of the usually short‐term recovery period for these injuries. However, the available evidence is insufficient to rule out the possibility that there is an optimal dosage schedule for ultrasound therapy that may be of benefit.
 The effectiveness of the provision of hip protectors in reducing the incidence of hip fracture in older people is still not clearly established, although they may reduce the rate of hip fractures if made available to frail older people in nursing care. It remains unknown from studies identified to date if these findings apply to all types of hip protectors. Some cluster‐randomised trials have been associated with high risk of bias. Poor acceptance and adherence by older people offered hip protectors have been key factors contributing to the continuing uncertainty.
 Overall, the evidence base for the effectiveness of interventions to reduce soft‐tissue injury after intensive running is very weak, with few trials at low risk of bias. More well‐designed and reported RCTs are needed that test interventions in recreational and competitive runners.
 Three updates of this review have resulted in more included studies and more people randomised but still relatively little useful additional data. The results remain inconclusive. The new trials all compare the omega‐3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, in particular eicosapentaenoic acid and its ester, ethyl‐eicosapentaenoic acid. The use of omega‐3 polyunsaturated fatty acids for schizophrenia still remains experimental and this review highlights the need for large, well designed, conducted and reported studies.
 Based on currently available randomised trial‐derived evidence, carbamazepine cannot be recommended for routine clinical use for treatment or augmentation of antipsychotic treatment of schizophrenia. At present large, simple well‐designed and reported trials are justified especially if focusing on those with violent episodes and people with schizoaffective disorders or those with both schizophrenia and EEG abnormalities.
 The licensed Ty21a and Vi polysaccharide vaccines are efficacious. The new and unlicensed Vi‐rEPA vaccine is as efficacious and may confer longer immunity.
 Regimens for the acute phase of illness should contain ceftazidime or imipenem. It is not yet clear if combinations of treatments in the early phase reduce relapse. For oral therapy after the acute phase of treatment, trials suggest that conventional four drug regimens can be used for treatment.
 Bronchodilators do not improve oxygen saturation, do not reduce hospital admission after outpatient treatment, do not shorten the duration of hospitalization and do not reduce the time to resolution of illness at home. The small improvements in clinical scores for outpatients must be weighed against the costs and adverse effects of bronchodilators.
 Influenza vaccines have a modest effect in reducing influenza symptoms and working days lost. There is no evidence that they affect complications, such as pneumonia, or transmission.This review includes 15 out of 36 trials funded by industry (four had no funding declaration). An earlier systematic review of 274 influenza vaccine studies published up to 2007 found industry funded studies were published in more prestigious journals and cited more than other studies independently from methodological quality and size. Studies funded from public sources were significantly less likely to report conclusions favorable to the vaccines. The review showed that reliable evidence on influenza vaccines is thin but there is evidence of widespread manipulation of conclusions and spurious notoriety of the studies. The content and conclusions of this review should be interpreted in light of this finding.
 Low‐intensity critical appraisal teaching interventions in healthcare populations may result in modest gains. Improvements to research examining the effectiveness of interventions in healthcare populations are required; specifically rigorous randomised trials employing interventions using appropriate adult learning theories.
 The findings suggest that appropriately trained nurses can produce as high quality care as primary care doctors and achieve as good health outcomes for patients. However, this conclusion should be viewed with caution given that only one study was powered to assess equivalence of care, many studies had methodological limitations, and patient follow‐up was generally 12 months or less.While doctor‐nurse substitution has the potential to reduce doctors' workload and direct healthcare costs, achieving such reductions depends on the particular context of care. Doctors' workload may remain unchanged either because nurses are deployed to meet previously unmet patient need or because nurses generate demand for care where previously there was none. Savings in cost depend on the magnitude of the salary differential between doctors and nurses, and may be offset by the lower productivity of nurses compared to doctors.
 Oral zinc sulphate does not appear to aid the healing of arterial and venous leg ulcers, however all included studies were small and at unclear risk of bias (due to poor reporting).
 There is no evidence of benefit of ultrasound therapy in the treatment of pressure ulcers. However, the possibility of beneficial or harmful effect cannot be ruled out due to the small number of trials, some with methodological limitations and small numbers of participants. Further research is needed.
 In children with a severe asthma exacerbation, the addition of intravenous aminophylline to ß2‐agonists and glucocorticoids (with or without anticholinergics) improves lung function within 6 hours of treatment. However there is no apparent reduction in symptoms, number of nebulised treatment and length of hospital stay. There is insufficient evidence to assess the impact on oxygenation, PICU admission and mechanical ventilation. Aminophylline is associated with a significant increased risk of vomiting.
 Comparisons and conclusions were difficult to evaluate as treatment interventions and outcome measurements from the seven trials varied considerably. At present therefore no reliable conclusions can be drawn concerning the use of breathing exercises for asthma in clinical practice. However trends for improvement, notably in quality of life measurements, are encouraging and further studies including full descriptions of treatment methods and outcome measurements are required.
 There is not enough evidence to support the uncritical use of anti‐cholinergic therapy for wheezing infants, although parents using it at home were able to identify benefits.
 Long‐acting beta‐2 agonists, particularly salmeterol, are more effective than theophylline in improving morning and evening PEF, but are not significantly different in their effect on FEV1. There is evidence of decreased daytime and nighttime short‐acting beta‐2 agonist requirement with salmeterol. Fewer adverse events occurred in participants using long‐acting beta‐2 agonists (salmeterol and formoterol) as compared to theophylline.
 In children with mild‐moderate asthma, beclomethasone 200 mcg twice daily caused a decrease in linear growth of ‐1.54 cm per year. These studies lasted a maximum of 54 weeks, so it remains unclear whether the decrease in growth is sustained or whether it reverses with 'catch up' after therapy is discontinued. We are unable to comment on growth effects of other inhaled steroids that have potentially less systemic effects. If inhaled steroids are required to control a child's asthma, we recommend using the minimum dose that effectively controls the child's asthma and closely following growth.
 There is little evidence to recommend that people with asthma supplement or modify their dietary intake of marine n‐3 fatty acids (fish oil) in order to improve their asthma control. Equally, there is no evidence that they are at risk if they do so.
 In general, these results support current guidelines, although it has given reassuring evidence against concerns over regular use of inhaled short‐acting beta‐2 agonists.
 In participants with chronic bronchitis or COPD, treatment with a mucolytic may produce a small reduction in acute exacerbations, but may have little or no effect on the overall quality of life. The effects on exacerbations shown in early trials were larger than those found in the more recent studies. This may be because the earlier smaller trials were at higher risk of selection or publication bias, so the benefits of treatment may not be as large as suggested by the previous evidence.
 Treatment of an exacerbation of COPD with oral or parenteral corticosteroids significantly reduces treatment failure and the need for additional medical treatment and shortens hospital stay. It increases the rate of improvement in lung function and dyspnoea and the improvement continues during treatment, but there is a significantly increase in the risk of an adverse drug event occurring. The optimal dose and length of treatment regime needs to be better defined.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate the routine use of mucolytics for bronchiectasis. High doses of bromhexine coupled with antibiotics may help with sputum production and clearance.
 Asthma education aimed at children and their carers who present to the emergency department for acute exacerbations can result in lower risk of future emergency department presentation and hospital admission. There remains uncertainty as to the long‐term effect of education on other markers of asthma morbidity such as quality of life, symptoms and lung function. It remains unclear as to what type, duration and intensity of educational packages are the most effective in reducing acute care utilisation.
 There is some evidence to support the effectiveness of community interventions in reducing the uptake of smoking in young people, but the evidence is not strong and contains a number of methodological flaws.
 Individually delivered smoking cessation counselling can assist smokers to quit.
 Pure Prevention cohorts showed a significant effect at longest follow‐up, with an average 12% reduction in starting smoking compared to the control groups. However, no overall effect was detected at one year or less. The combined social competence and social influences interventions showed a significant effect at one year and at longest follow‐up. Studies that deployed a social influences programme showed no overall effect at any time point; multimodal interventions and those with an information‐only approach were similarly ineffective.Studies reporting Change in Smoking Behaviour over time did not show an overall effect, but at an intervention level there were positive findings for social competence and combined social competence and social influences interventions.
 The most recent search for references to relevant research was carried out in March 2012. No trials were found for inclusion in this systematic review.Low‐dose aspirin is frequently used as 'treatment as normal' in control groups and as a baseline treatment in pharmacological trials.There is still no good evidence that aspirin is effective in treating patients with a diagnosis of vascular dementia.There is increasing concern that low‐dose aspirin is associated with increased risk of haemorrhages.Further research is needed to assess the effect of aspirin on cognition, and on other outcomes such as haemorrhages, mortality, institutionalisation and behaviour.However, the feasibility of such research is limited by a number of factors, including the widespread use of low‐dose aspirin for secondary prevention of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular conditions, and its low cost and lack of patent, which limit commercial interest in investing in these studies. In addition, there is increasing evidence of its potential to cause harm from haemorrhages, especially gastric and cerebral haemorrhages that can be fatal. 
 Both danazol and progesterone + oestrogen add‐back have been shown to be protective of BMD, while on treatment and up to six and 12 months later, respectively. However, by 24 months of follow‐up there was no difference in BMD in those women who had HRT add‐back. Studies of danazol versus GnRHa did not report long‐term follow‐up. The significant side effects associated with danazol limit its use.
 The current evidence for the use of fluid and pharmacological agents for the prevention of adhesions is limited. There is no evidence on any benefit for improving pregnancy outcomes when pharmacological and fluid agents are used as an adjunct during pelvic surgery.There is insufficient evidence for the use of the following agents: steroids, icodextrin 4%, SprayGel and dextran in improving adhesions following surgery.There is some evidence that hyaluronic acid agents may decrease the proportion of adhesions and prevent the deterioration of pre existing adhesions. However, due to the limited number of studies available, this evidence should be interpreted with caution and further studies are needed.
 Laparoscopic surgery results in improved pain outcomes when compared to diagnostic laparoscopy alone. There were few women diagnosed with severe endometriosis included in the meta‐analysis and therefore any conclusions from this meta‐analysis regarding treatment of severe endometriosis should be made with caution. It is not possible to draw conclusions from the meta‐analysis which specific laparoscopic surgical intervention is most effective.
 Whether ICSI should be preferred to IVF for cases of non‐male factor subfertility remains an open question. Further research should report live birth rates and adverse events.
 There is limited evidence of benefit from intra‐venous albumin administration at the time of oocyte retrieval in the prevention or reduction of the incidence of severe OHSS in high risk women undergoing IVF or ICSI treatment cycles. Hydroxyethyl starch markedly decreases the incidence of severe OHSS.
 The results of non‐randomised studies have concluded that a low‐phenylalanine diet is effective in reducing blood phenylalanine levels and improving intelligence quotient and neuropsychological outcomes. We were unable to find any randomised controlled studies that have assessed the effect of a low‐phenylalanine diet versus no diet from diagnosis. In view of evidence from non‐randomised studies, such a study would be unethical and it is recommended that low‐phenylalanine diet should be commenced at the time of diagnosis. There is uncertainty about the precise level of phenylalanine restriction and when, if ever, the diet should be relaxed. This should be addressed by randomised controlled studies.
 The limited evidence available suggests that bladder training may be helpful for the treatment of urinary incontinence, but this conclusion can only be tentative as the trials were of variable quality and of small size with wide confidence intervals around the point estimates of effect. There was also not enough evidence to determine whether bladder training was useful as a supplement to another therapy. Definitive research has yet to be conducted.
 At present, there are insufficient data to allow reliable conclusions to be drawn on the effects of electrical stimulation in the management of faecal incontinence. There is a suggestion that electrical stimulation may have a therapeutic effect, but this is not certain. Larger, more generalisable trials are needed.
 Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are effective in relieving SVCO in a proportion of patients whereas stent insertion appears to provide relief in a higher proportion and more rapidly. The optimal timing of stent insertion (whether at diagnosis or following failure of other modalities) and the effectiveness of steroids remain uncertain.
 The evidence suggests that there is no obvious superior surgical technique for treating cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in terms of treatment failures or operative morbidity.
 From this review, there is no evidence that one colloid solution is more effective or safe than any other, although the CIs were wide and do not exclude clinically significant differences between colloids. Larger trials of fluid therapy are needed if clinically significant differences in mortality are to be detected or excluded.
 Prior to the current update it appeared there was some evidence that cranberry juice may decrease the number of symptomatic UTIs over a 12 month period, particularly for women with recurrent UTIs. The addition of 14 further studies suggests that cranberry juice is less effective than previously indicated. Although some of small studies demonstrated a small benefit for women with recurrent UTIs, there were no statistically significant differences when the results of a much larger study were included. Cranberry products were not significantly different to antibiotics for preventing UTIs in three small studies. Given the large number of dropouts/withdrawals from studies (mainly attributed to the acceptability of consuming cranberry products particularly juice, over long periods), and the evidence that the benefit for preventing UTI is small, cranberry juice cannot currently be recommended for the prevention of UTIs. Other preparations (such as powders) need to be quantified using standardised methods to ensure the potency, and contain enough of the 'active' ingredient, before being evaluated in clinical studies or recommended for use.
 After a thorough search, no RCTs which assessed the effectiveness of cranberry juice for the treatment of UTIs were found. Therefore, at the present time, there is no good quality evidence to suggest that it is effective for the treatment of UTIs. Well‐designed parallel group, double blind studies comparing cranberry juice and other cranberry products versus placebo to assess the effectiveness of cranberry juice in treating UTIs are needed. Outcomes should include reduction in symptoms, sterilisation of the urine, side effects and adherence to therapy. Dosage (amount and concentration) and duration of therapy should also be assessed. Consumers and clinicians will welcome the evidence from these studies.
 This review provides evidence from seven RCTs that phacoemulsification gives a better outcome than ECCE with sutures. We also found evidence that ECCE with a posterior chamber lens implant provides better visual outcome than ICCE with aphakic glasses. The long term effect of posterior capsular opacification (PCO) needs to be assessed in larger populations. The data also suggests that ICCE with an anterior chamber lens implant is an effective alternative to ICCE with aphakic glasses, with similar safety. Phacoemulsification provides the best visual outcomes but will only be accessible to the poorer countries if the cost of phacoemulsification and foldable IOLs decrease. Manual small incision cataract surgery provides early visual rehabilitation and comparable visual outcome to PHACO. It has better visual outcomes than ECCE and can be used in any clinic that is currently carrying out ECCE with IOL. Further research from developing regions are needed to compare the cost and longer term outcomes of these procedures e.g. PCO and corneal endothelial cell damage.
 Intermediate‐dose mifepristone (25‐50 mg) was superior to LNG and Yuzpe regimens. Mifepristone low dose (< 25 mg) may be more effective than LNG (0.75 mg two doses), but this was not conclusive. UPA may be more effective than LNG. LNG proved to be more effective than the Yuzpe regimen. The copper IUD was the most effective EC method and was the only EC method to provide ongoing contraception if left in situ.
 Implanon, Norplant and Jadelle are highly effective contraceptive methods. No significant differences were found in contraceptive effectiveness or continuation. The most common side‐effect with all implants was unpredictable vaginal bleeding. Time taken for removal of Implanon and Jadelle was less than that for Norplant. Although this systematic review was unable to provide a definitive answer on relative effectiveness, tolerability and acceptability of contraceptive implants in comparison to other contraceptive methods, it has raised issues around the conduct of contraceptive research.
 Use of either doxycycline 200 mg or azithromycin 500 mg by mouth before IUD insertion confers little benefit. While the reduction in unscheduled visits to the provider was marginally significant, the cost‐effectiveness of routine prophylaxis remains questionable. A uniform finding in these trials was the low risk of IUD‐associated infection, with or without use of antibiotic prophylaxis.
 Major morbidity seems to be a rare outcome for both, laparoscopy and minilaparotomy. Personal preference of the woman and/or of the surgeon can guide the choice of technique. Practical aspects must be taken into account before implementing endoscopic techniques in settings with limited resources. Culdoscopy is not recommended as it carries a higher complication rate.
 We found no clear differences in life table pregnancy rates between women using LAM and being supported in doing so, and fully breastfeeding amenorrheic women not using any method. Because the length of lactation amenorrhea in women using LAM was very different between the populations studied, and is population specific, it is uncertain whether the LAM extends lactational amenorrhea.
 Currently available information allows no unbiased statement about safety or efficacy of aminopyridines for treating MS symptoms. Furthermore, we could not obtain any data on three unpublished RCTs (more than 300 participants). We conclude that publication bias remains a pervasive problem in this area, and that until the results of these unpublished studies are available to the scientific community, no confident estimate of effectiveness of aminopyridines in the management of MS symptoms is possible.
 We found evidence favouring the corticosteroid MP for acute exacerbation in MS patients. Data are insufficient to reliably estimate effect of corticosteroids on prevention of new exacerbations and reduction of long‐term disability. Studies assessing long term risk/benefit and adverse effects of corticosteroids in MS patients are urgently needed.
 The absolute and comparative efficacy and tolerability of anti‐spasticity agents in multiple sclerosis is poorly documented and no recommendations can be made to guide prescribing. The rationale for treating features of the upper motor neurone syndrome must be better understood and sensitive, validated spasticity measures need to be developed.
 The findings of this review suggest that oral naltrexone did not perform better than treatment with placebo or no pharmacological agent with respect to the number of participants re‐incarcerated during the study period. If oral naltrexone is compared with other pharmacological treatments such as benzodiazepine and buprenorphine, no statistically significant difference was found. The percentage of people retained in treatment in the included studies is however low (28%). The conclusion of this review is that the studies conducted have not allowed an adequate evaluation of oral naltrexone treatment in the field of opioid dependence. Consequently, maintenance therapy with naltrexone cannot yet be considered a treatment which has been scientifically proved to be superior to other kinds of treatment.
 UVI of oxytocin solution is an inexpensive and simple intervention that could be performed while placental delivery is awaited. However, high‐quality randomized trials show that the use of oxytocin has little or no effect. Further research into the optimal timing of manual removal and into UVI of prostaglandins or plasma expander is warranted.
 OM as an induction agent is effective at achieving vaginal delivery. It is more effective than placebo, as effective as vaginal misoprostol and results in fewer caesarean sections than vaginal dinoprostone.Where misoprostol remains unlicenced for the induction of labour, many practitioners will prefer the legal protection of using a licenced product like dinoprostone. If using OM, clinicians should use a dose of 20 to 25 mcg in solution. Given that safety is the primary concern, the oral regimens are recommended over vaginal regimens. This is especially important in situations where the risk of ascending infection is high and the lack of staff means that women cannot be intensely monitored.
 A policy of using ECMO in mature infants with severe but potentially reversible respiratory failure results in significantly improved survival without increased risk of severe disability. The benefit of ECMO for babies with diaphragmatic hernia is unclear.Further studies are needed to consider the optimal timing for introducing ECMO; to identify which infants are most likely to benefit; and to address the implications of neonatal ECMO during later childhood and adult life.
 For the secondary prevention of recurrent ischemic stroke after TIA or minor stroke of presumed arterial origin, there is sufficient evidence to conclude that vitamin K antagonists in any dose are not more efficacious than antiplatelet therapy and that medium and high intensity anticoagulation leads to a significant increase in major bleeding complications.
 Bisphosphonates are effective at preventing and treating corticosteroid‐induced bone loss at the lumbar spine and femoral neck. Efficacy regarding fracture prevention cannot be concluded from this analysis, although bone density changes are correlated with fracture risk.
 Surgical discectomy for carefully selected patients with sciatica due to lumbar disc prolapse provides faster relief from the acute attack than conservative management, although any positive or negative effects on the lifetime natural history of the underlying disc disease are still unclear. Microdiscectomy gives broadly comparable results to open discectomy. The evidence on other minimally invasive techniques remains unclear (with the exception of chemonucleolysis using chymopapain, which is no longer widely available).
 The data do not allow firm conclusions about the effectiveness of acupuncture for acute low‐back pain. For chronic low‐back pain, acupuncture is more effective for pain relief and functional improvement than no treatment or sham treatment immediately after treatment and in the short‐term only. Acupuncture is not more effective than other conventional and "alternative" treatments. The data suggest that acupuncture and dry‐needling may be useful adjuncts to other therapies for chronic low‐back pain. Because most of the studies were of lower methodological quality, there certainly is a further need for higher quality trials in this area.
 Limited evidence is now available to support some aspects of surgical practice. Surgeons should be encouraged to perform further RCTs in this field.
 There is insufficient evidence from randomised trials to determine whether surgery or conservative management was best for ACL injury in the 1980s, and no evidence to inform current practice. Good quality randomised trials are required to remedy this situation.
 This systematic review confirms that amisulpride is an effective 'atypical' antipsychotic drug for those with schizophrenia. Amisulpride may offer a good general profile, at least compared to high‐potency 'typical' antipsychotics. It may also yield better results in some specific outcomes related to efficacy, such as improvement of global state and general negative symptoms. It might be more acceptable and more tolerable than high‐potency conventional antipsychotics, especially regarding extrapyramidal side‐effects. Longer term randomised trials are needed to evaluate the comparative value of amisulpride, particularly compared to other expensive atypical antipsychotics. These should focus on important outcomes which have not been sufficiently monitored such as service use, family burden and quality of life.
 The large proportion of participants leaving studies early in these trials makes it difficult to draw firm conclusions on olanzapine's clinical effects. For people with schizophrenia it may offer antipsychotic efficacy with fewer extrapyramidal adverse effects than typical drugs, but more weight gain. There is a need for further large, long‐term randomised trials with more comprehensive data.
 Current data do not support the use of psychodynamic psychotherapy techniques for hospitalised people with schizophrenia. If psychoanalytic therapy is being used for people with schizophrenia there is an urgent need for trials.
 Haloperidol decanoate may have a substantial effect in improving the symptoms and behaviour associated with schizophrenia in comparison to placebo, but data are remarkably sparse.There are no discernible differences between the depot form of haloperidol and its oral equivalent. For those needing and willing to take the drug, the means of administration is then a matter of individual choice and clinical judgement. As there are no clear differences between haloperidol decanoate and other depots, the choice of depot medication could also be individually tailored and patient preference exercised.Well‐conducted and reported randomised trials are needed comparing haloperidol decanoate with other depots but the comparison of haloperidol decanoate to oral antipsychotics is a priority.
 Longer periods of treatment (at least up to 6 months) result in higher success rates in patients with active TB, but the differences are small. Under field conditions, where adherence to treatment is a big problem, and shorter regimens might improve adherence, these differences may not be evident. A comparison of <6 months vs. 6 months of treatment under programme conditions would be needed to determine this.
 Isoniazid prevents active TB in diverse at‐risk patients, and six‐ and 12‐month regimens have a similar effect. The most recent trial included in the review was published in 1994, and we have not identified any relevant trials up to 2003. We therefore do not plan to update this review.
 Zinc administered within 24 hours of onset of symptoms reduces the duration of common cold symptoms in healthy people but some caution is needed due to the heterogeneity of the data. As the zinc lozenges formulation has been widely studied and there is a significant reduction in the duration of cold at a dose of ≥ 75 mg/day, for those considering using zinc it would be best to use it at this dose throughout the cold. Regarding prophylactic zinc supplementation, currently no firm recommendation can be made because of insufficient data. When using zinc lozenges (not as syrup or tablets) the likely benefit has to be balanced against side effects, notably a bad taste and nausea.
 Dietitians were better than doctors at lowering blood cholesterol in the short to medium term, but there was no evidence that they were better than self‐help resources. There was no evidence that dietitians provided better outcomes than nurses. The results should be interpreted with caution as the studies were not of good quality and the analysis was based on a limited number of trials.
 In conclusion, this meta‐analysis shows that treatment with vitamin K antagonists reduces the risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism for as long as it is used. However, the absolute risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism declines over time, while the risk for major bleeding remains. Thus, the efficacy of vitamin K antagonist administration decreases over time since the index event.
 Oral naftidrofuryl has a statistically significant and clinically meaningful, although moderate, effect of improving walking distance in the six months after initiation of therapy for people with intermittent claudication. Access by researchers to data from RCTs that are suitable for IPD analysis should be possible through repositories of data from pharmacological trials. Regular formal appraisal of the balance of risk and benefit is needed for older pharmaceutical products.
 Evidence from randomised controlled trials indicates that ketotifen alone or in combination with other co‐interventions improves control of asthma and wheezing in children with mild and moderate asthma. However due to the high proportion of children with atopy in some trials the results cannot necessarily be generalised to all asthmatic children. The benefit is obtained at the cost of minor side effects, namely sedation and weight gain. The validity of this conclusion is limited by the low reported, methodological quality of included trials.
 LABA are effective in the control of chronic asthma in the "real‐life" subject groups included. However there are potential safety issues which call into question the safety of LABA, particularly in those asthmatics who are not taking ICS, and it is not clear why African‐Americans were found to have significant differences in comparison to Caucasians for combined respiratory‐related death and life threatening experiences, but not for asthma‐related death.
 The available data from the trials included in this review suggest that the advantage of regular long term use of ipratropium alone or in combination with a short‐acting beta‐2 agonist or over a beta‐2 agonist alone are small, if the aim is to improve lung function, symptoms and exercise tolerance. Until further data are available, the strategy of providing a short‐acting beta‐2 agonist on a PRN basis, and then either continuing with the short‐acting beta‐2 agonist regularly or conducting an "n of 1" trial of regular beta‐2 agonist or regular anticholinergic to determine the treatment that gives the best relief of symptoms (and continuing with it), would seem cost effective. This strategy does need formal evaluation. Patient preference is also important, as is the relative importance of avoiding the use of systemic corticosteroids.
 The limited evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) included in this review suggests that, while it is possible that injectable polyvalent pneumococcal vaccines may provide some protection against morbidity in persons with COPD, no significant effect on any of the outcomes was shown. Further large RCTs in this population would be needed to confirm effectiveness of the vaccine suggested by results from longitudinal studies.
 The evidence available shows a small benefit for the use of prolonged antibiotics in the treatment of bronchiectasis. This review is limited by the diversity of the trials. Further randomised controlled trials with adequate power and standardised end points are required.
 There is insufficient evidence from randomised trials to allow any conclusion about the efficacy of validation therapy for people with dementia or cognitive impairment.
 There is no evidence of effectiveness in the alleviation of menopausal symptoms with the use of phytoestrogen treatments.
 SSRIs are effective in reducing the symptoms of PMS, whether taken in the luteal phase only or continuously. Adverse effects are relatively frequent, the most common being nausea and asthenia. Adverse effects are dose‐dependent.
 The use of laparoscopic surgery in the treatment of subfertility related to minimal and mild endometriosis may improve future fertility.
 Vaccines against Pseudomonas aeruginosa cannot be recommended.
 The results of this review show that airway clearance techniques have short‐term effects in the terms of increasing mucus transport. No evidence was found on which to draw conclusions concerning the long‐term effects.
 Two randomised controlled trials assessing neonatal screening in CF were identified; data from one study were included. Nutritional benefits are apparent. Screening provides potential for better pulmonary outcomes, but confounding factors influenced long‐term pulmonary prognosis of people with CF. Screening seems less expensive than traditional diagnosis.
 Urinary incontinence may be improved with the use of local oestrogen treatment. However, there was little evidence from the trials on the period after oestrogen treatment had finished and no information about the long‐term effects of this therapy was given. Conversely, systemic hormone replacement therapy using conjugated equine oestrogen may worsen incontinence. There were too few data to reliably address other aspects of oestrogen therapy, such as oestrogen type and dose, and no direct evidence comparing routes of administration. The risk of endometrial and breast cancer after long‐term use of systemic oestrogen suggests that treatment should be for limited periods, especially in those women with an intact uterus.
 This systematic review has not revealed strong controlled evidence to support or refute the use of BtA for the treatment of leg spasticity in cerebral palsy.Ongoing randomised controlled trials are likely to provide useful data on the short term effects of BtA for leg spasticity.Future research should also assess the longer term use of BtA. Ideally studies should be pragmatic in their approach to dose and distribution of toxin to reflect practise. Outcome measures assessing function and disability would give the most useful information.
 Gabapentin has efficacy as an add‐on treatment in people with drug‐resistant partial epilepsy. However, the trials reviewed were of relatively short duration and provide no evidence for the long‐term efficacy of gabapentin beyond a three‐month period. The results cannot be extrapolated to monotherapy or to people with other epilepsy types.
 Zonisamide has efficacy as an add‐on treatment in people with drug‐resistant partial epilepsy. Minimum effective and maximum tolerated doses cannot be identified. The trials reviewed were of 12 week duration and results cannot be used to confirm longer periods of effectiveness in seizure control. The results cannot be extrapolated to monotherapy or to people with other seizure types or epilepsy syndromes.
 Topiramate has efficacy as an add‐on treatment for drug‐resistant partial epilepsy. However, trials reviewed were of relatively short duration, and provide no evidence for the long‐term efficacy of topiramate. Results cannot be extrapolated to monotherapy or treating other epilepsy types.
 Available evidence, although not conclusive, suggests platinum‐based chemotherapy is better than non‐platinum therapy. There is some evidence that combination therapy improves survival compared with platinum alone. No difference in effect has been shown between cisplatin and carboplatin.
 Doxorubicin‐based adjuvant chemotherapy appears to significantly improve time to local and distant recurrence and overall recurrence‐free survival in adults with localised resectable soft tissue sarcoma. There is some evidence of a trend towards improved overall survival.
 Bleeding associated with surgery of the cervix appears to be reduced by vasopressin, used in combination with local anaesthetic. Tranexamic acid appears to be beneficial after knife and laser cone biopsy. There are insufficient data to assess the effects on primary haemorrhage. There is some evidence that haemostatic suturing has an adverse effect on blood loss, cervical stenosis and satisfactory colposcopy.
 Interferon‐alfa provides a modest survival benefit compared to other commonly used treatments. In fit patients with metastases at diagnosis and minimal symptoms, nephrectomy followed by interferon‐alfa gives the best survival strategy for fully validated therapies. The need for more effective specific therapy for this condition is apparent.
 This systematic review indicates that there is no reliable evidence to support, or rule out, the effectiveness of multisensory programmes in patients in coma or vegetative state.
 The efficacy of emergency intubation as currently practised has not been rigorously studied. The skill level of the operator may be key in determining efficacy. In non‐traumatic cardiac arrest, it is unlikely that intubation carries the same life saving benefit as early defibrillation and bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). In trauma and paediatric patients, the current evidence base provides no imperative to extend the practice of prehospital intubation in urban systems. It would be ethical and pertinent to initiate a large, high quality randomised trial comparing the efficacy of competently practised emergency intubation with basic bag‐valve‐mask manoeuvres (BVM) in urban adult out‐of‐hospital non‐traumatic cardiac arrest.
 There is no conclusive evidence of benefit in terms of recovery to normal visual acuity, visual field or contrast sensitivity with either intravenous or oral corticosteroids at the doses evaluated in trials included in this review.
 New for this updated review is evidence that: decision aids with explicit values clarification exercises improve informed values‐based choices; decision aids appear to have a positive effect on patient‐practitioner communication; and decision aids have a variable effect on length of consultation.Consistent with findings from the previous review, which had included studies up to 2006: decision aids increase people's involvement, and improve knowledge and realistic perception of outcomes; however, the size of the effect varies across studies. Decision aids have a variable effect on choices. They reduce the choice of discretionary surgery and have no apparent adverse effects on health outcomes or satisfaction. The effects on adherence with the chosen option, patient‐practitioner communication, cost‐effectiveness, and use with developing and/or lower literacy populations need further evaluation. Little is known about the degree of detail that decision aids need in order to have positive effects on attributes of the decision or decision‐making process.
 Many different interventions were reported to produce "improvement" in PPP. There is, however, no standardised method for assessing response to treatment, and reductions in pustule counts or other empirical semi‐quantitative scoring systems may be of little relevance to the patient. This review has shown that the ideal treatment for PPP remains elusive and that the standards of study design and reporting need to be improved to inform patients and those treating them of the relative merits of the many treatments available to them.
 Placebo‐controlled trials of allylamines and azoles for athlete's foot consistently produce much higher percentages of cure than placebo. Allylamines cure slightly more infections than azoles and are now available OTC. Further research into the effectiveness of antifungal agents for nail infections is required.
 Treatment with thalidomide was not shown to be effective and was associated with significantly higher mortality than placebo. There is no reliable evidence on which to base treatment for toxic epidermal necrolysis, a disease commonly associated with mortality rates of around 30%. More research is required to understand the mechanisms of toxic epidermal necrolysis. International multi‐centre studies are needed in the form of randomised controlled trials, to evaluate treatments for toxic epidermal necrolysis, especially those using high doses of steroid and intravenous immunoglobulins.
 Antibiotic prophylaxis is effective in the prevention of postoperative complications in appendectomised patients, whether the administration is given pre‐, peri‐ or post‐operatively, and could be considered for routine in emergency appendectomies.
 Since the last version of this review no new relevant studies have been identified. The combination of dextropropoxyphene 65 mg with paracetamol 650 mg shows similar efficacy to tramadol 100 mg for single dose studies in postoperative pain but with a lower incidence of adverse effects. The same dose of paracetamol combined with 60 mg codeine appears more effective but, with the slight overlap in the 95% CI, this conclusion is not robust. Adverse effects of both combinations were similar.Ibuprofen 400 mg has a lower (better) NNT than both dextropropoxyphene 65 mg plus paracetamol 650 mg and tramadol 100 mg.
 We found evidence to support the effectiveness of patient support and education interventions intended to improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy. Interventions targeting practical medication management skills, those interventions administered to individuals vs groups, and those interventions delivered over 12 weeks or more were associated with improved adherence outcomes. There is a need for standardization and increased methodological rigour in the conduct of adherence trials.
 Given the level of investment in growth monitoring worldwide, it is surprising there is so little research evaluating its potential benefits and harms.
 There is no convincing evidence that iron treatment of young children with IDA has an effect on psychomotor development or cognitive function within 30 days after commencement of therapy. The effect of longer‐term treatment remains unclear. There is an urgent need for further large randomised controlled trials with long‐term follow‐up.
 According to moderate quality evidence, corticosteroids given alone do not significantly hasten recovery from GBS or affect the long‐term outcome. According to low quality evidence oral corticosteroids delay recovery. Diabetes requiring insulin was significantly more common and hypertension less common with corticosteroids.
 Riluzole 100 mg daily is reasonably safe and probably prolongs median survival by about two to three months in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
 Until better evidence is available the choice of antihypertensive should depend on the clinician's experience and familiarity with a particular drug; on what is known about adverse effects; and on women's preferences. Exceptions are nimodipine, magnesium sulphate (although this is indicated for women who require an anticonvulsant for prevention or treatment of eclampsia), diazoxide and ketanserin, which are probably best avoided.
 Existing evidence does not provide conclusive evidence that the use of routine umbilical artery Doppler ultrasound, or combination of umbilical and uterine artery Doppler ultrasound in low‐risk or unselected populations benefits either mother or baby. Future studies should be designed to address small changes in perinatal outcome, and should focus on potentially preventable deaths.
 Based on existing evidence, routine late pregnancy ultrasound in low‐risk or unselected populations does not confer benefit on mother or baby. It may be associated with a small increase in caesarean section rates. There is a lack of data about the potential psychological effects of routine ultrasound in late pregnancy, and limited data about its effects on both short‐ and long‐term neonatal and childhood outcome. Placental grading in the third trimester may be valuable, but whether reported results are reproducible remains to be seen, and future research of late pregnancy ultrasound should include evaluation of placental textural assessment.
 Venepuncture, when performed by a skilled phlebotomist, appears to be the method of choice for blood sampling in term neonates. The use of a sweet tasting solution further reduces the pain.Further well designed randomised controlled trials should be conducted in settings where several individuals perform the procedures.
 In view of the lack of data from randomized trials concerning effects on important clinical outcomes, routine or sustained use of systemic loop diuretics in infants with (or developing) CLD cannot be recommended based on current evidence. Randomized trials are needed to assess the effects of furosemide administration on survival, duration of ventilatory support and oxygen administration, length of hospital stay, potential complications and long‐term outcome.
 There are no data to support routine administration of furosemide in preterm infants with RDS. Elective administration of furosemide to any patient with RDS should be carefully weighed against the risk of precipitating hypovolemia or developing a symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus. There are not enough data to support routine administration of low‐dose theophylline in preterm infants with RDS.
 Early selective surfactant administration given to infants with RDS requiring assisted ventilation leads to a decreased risk of acute pulmonary injury (decreased risk of pneumothorax and pulmonary interstitial emphysema) and a decreased risk of neonatal mortality and chronic lung disease compared to delaying treatment of such infants until they develop worsening RDS.
 The available trial data do not provide evidence that glutamine supplementation confers important benefits for preterm infants.
 Our results may indicate that antiplatelet drugs did not significantly change the odds of death but reduce the outcome 'stroke of any cause' in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy. However, it can not be excluded that the beneficial effect in reducing stroke is due to chance. There is a suggestion that antiplatelets may increase the odds of haemorrhage, but there are currently too few data to quantify this effect.
 D‐penicillamine appears to have a clinically and statistically significant benefit on the disease activity of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Its efficacy appears to be similar to that of other disease modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), but with a significantly higher toxicity. Its effects on long‐term functional status and radiological progression are not clear from this review.
 Azathioprine appears to have a statistically significant benefit on the disease activity in joints of patients with RA. This evidence however is based on a small number of patients, included in older trials. Its effects on long‐term functional status and radiological progression were not assessed due to lack of data. Toxicity is shown to be higher and more serious than that observed with other disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Given this high risk to benefit ratio, there is no evidence to recommend the use of azathioprine over other DMARDs.
 Both small trials had significant risks of bias and do not provide reliable evidence on the effects of surgery for cervical spondylotic radiculopathy or myelopathy. It is unclear whether the short‐term risks of surgery are offset by long‐term benefits. Further research is very likely to have an impact on the estimate of effect and our confidence in it.There is low quality evidence that surgery may provide pain relief faster than physiotherapy or hard collar immobilization in patients with cervical radiculopathy; but there is little or no difference in the long‐term.There is very low quality evidence that patients with mild myelopathy feel subjectively better shortly after surgery, but there is little or no difference in the long‐term.
 No clear conclusions can be made on the choice of implant for internal fixation of intracapsular fractures from the available evidence within randomised trials.
 From the data reported in clinical trials, it would be understandable if those suffering from schizophrenia, who are willing to take flupenthixol decanoate, would request the standard dose rather than the high dose. In the current state of evidence, there is nothing to choose between flupenthixol decanoate and other depot antipsychotics. The choice of which depot to use must therefore be based on clinical judgement and the preferences of people with schizophrenia and their carers. Managers and policy makers should expect better data than the research community has provided thus far.This review highlighted the need for large, well‐designed and reported randomised clinical trials to address the effects of flupenthixol decanoate, in particular when compared to oral antipsychotics. Future studies should also consider hospital and service outcomes, satisfaction with care and record economic data.
 Current limited evidence suggests educational games could help mental health students gain more points in their tests, especially if they have left revision to the last minute. This salient study should be refined and repeated.
 The token economy approach may have effects on negative symptoms but it is unclear if these results are reproducible, clinically meaningful and are maintained beyond the treatment programme. Token economy remains worthy of careful evaluation in well designed, conducted and reported randomised trials.
 There are insufficient data to draw any conclusions for DFO and deferiprone. There are nonsignificant trends towards fewer seizures but overall harm (death) with DFO, and results from one small trial of deferiprone suggest shorter coma recovery and parasite clearance.2008: We do not plan to update this review given the paucity of recent trials in this area and other priorities in malaria treatment research.
 There is insufficient data to be sure whether routinely giving blood to clinically stable children with severe anaemia in endemic malarious areas reduces death, or results in higher haematocrit measured at one month.
 The evidence generated by this review is based on a small number of individuals. Furthermore, the effect varies with the methods applied for assessing the sensitivity. Thus no clear evidence is available for the support of potassium containing toothpastes for dentine hypersensitivity.
 The studies reviewed were of poor quality and used older antibiotics. This review suggests a beneficial effect of antibiotics in preventing complications such as pneumonia, purulent otitis media and tonsillitis in children with measles. On the basis of this review, it is not possible to recommend definitive guidelines on the type of antibiotic, duration or the day of initiation. There is a need for more evidence from high‐quality RCTs to answer these questions.
 Multi‐component (≥ three) aP vaccines are effective and show less adverse effects than wP vaccines for the primary series as well as for booster doses.
 No overall significant reduction in mortality with vitamin A therapy for children with measles was found. However two doses reduced overall and pneumonia‐specific mortality in children aged less than two years. No trials directly compared a single dose with two doses.
 Based on current evidence of the effectiveness of PCVs for the prevention of AOM, the currently licensed 7‐valent PCV administered during infancy has marginal beneficial effects. Discrete reductions of 6% to 7% may mean substantial reductions from a public health perspective. Administering PCV7 in older children with a history of AOM appears to have no benefit in preventing further episodes.
 Multifaceted professional interventions can enhance the performance of health professionals in managing patients with diabetes. Organisational interventions that improve regular prompted recall and review of patients (central computerised tracking systems or nurses who regularly contact the patient) can also improve diabetes management. The addition of patient‐oriented interventions can lead to improved patient health outcomes. Nurses can play an important role in patient‐oriented interventions, through patient education or facilitating adherence to treatment.
 GCS are effective in diminishing the risk of DVT in hospitalised patients. Data examination also suggests that GCS on a background of another method of prophylaxis is more effective than GCS on its own.
 Although there were significant quality issues with the available evidence, the use of a tourniquet would appear to reduce blood loss during surgery. There were no reported differences between the use or non‐use of a tourniquet in terms of complications and morbidity. However, the available trials were not of sufficient size to detect rarer complications such as nerve damage.
 There was a clear primary patency benefit for autologous vein when compared to synthetic materials for above knee bypasses. In the long term (five years) Dacron confers a small primary patency benefit over PTFE for above knee bypass. PTFE with a vein cuff improved primary patency when compared to PTFE alone for below knee bypasses. Further randomised data is needed to ascertain whether this information translates into improvement in limb survival.
 In some trials, foot care knowledge and self reported patient behaviour seem to be positively influenced by education in the short term. Yet, based on the only two sufficiently powered studies reporting the effect of patient education on primary end points, we conclude that there is insufficient robust evidence that limited patient education alone is effective in achieving clinically relevant reductions in ulcer and amputation incidence.
 Current evidence does not support routine use of intravenous magnesium sulfate in all patients with acute asthma presenting to the emergency department. Magnesium sulfate appears to be safe and beneficial in patients who present with severe acute asthma.
 Budesonide in high dose delivered by the particular nebuliser used in the only double‐blinded study that could be included in this review was more effective than budesonide 1600 mcg via a large volume spacer. However, it is not clear whether this was an effect of nominal dose delivered or delivery system. Cost, compliance and patient preference are important determinants of clinical effectiveness that still require further assessment. Future studies are needed to evaluate the relative effectiveness of inhaled corticosteroids delivered by different combinations of nebuliser/compressor compared to holding chamber. Moreover, further studies assessing these delivery methods are needed in infants and pre‐school children, as these are groups that are likely to be considered for treatment with nebulised corticosteroids.
 We did not find any relevant randomized controlled trials. Therefore, as yet no data are available to provide evidence for or against current practices regarding the use of inhaled beta2‐agonists in asthmatic subjects who are intubated and ventilated.
 Use of short‐acting beta‐2 agonists on a regular basis for at least seven days in stable COPD is associated with improvements in post bronchodilator lung function and a decrease in breathlessness. Patients are far more likely to prefer treatment with beta‐2 agonists than placebo, and less likely to drop out from such treatment. None of the studies included in this review reported sufficient data or were of sufficient length or size in order to provide reliable information on adverse effects. Therefore large scale, parallel, longer term studies would be needed to investigate the effect of treatment with regular inhaled beta‐2 agonists on mortality, disease progression and side effects. Newer, long acting bronchodilators (including long‐acting beta‐2 agonists) are currently available and they may be more practical and/or effective in these patients. However, this review indicates that treatment with these older, inexpensive drugs is beneficial in patients with COPD.
 In asthmatic subjects with gastro‐oesophageal reflux, (but who were not recruited specifically on the basis of reflux‐associated respiratory symptoms), there was no overall improvement in asthma following treatment for gastro‐oesophageal reflux. Subgroups of patients may gain benefit, but it appears difficult to predict responders.
 Interventions with retailers can lead to large decreases in the number of outlets selling tobacco to youths. However, few of the communities studied in this review achieved sustained levels of high compliance. This may explain why there is limited evidence for an effect of intervention on youth perception of ease of access to tobacco, and on smoking behaviour.
 It is not possible to draw any conclusions from this review. The number of people included in the studies is less than 50 and the reported results are inadequate.
 Creams, pessaries, tablets and the oestradiol vaginal ring appeared to be equally effective for the symptoms of vaginal atrophy. One trial found significant side effects following cream (conjugated equine oestrogen) administration when compared to tablets causing uterine bleeding, breast pain and perineal pain. Another trial found significant endometrial overstimulation following use of the cream (conjugated equine oestrogen) when compared to the ring. As a treatment choice women appeared to favour the oestradiol‐releasing vaginal ring for ease of use, comfort of product and overall satisfaction.
 Endometrial ablation techniques offer a less invasive surgical alternative to hysterectomy. The rapid development of a number of new methods of endometrial destruction has made systematic comparisons between individual methods and with the 'gold standard' first‐generation techniques difficult. Most of the newer techniques are technically easier to perform than traditional hysteroscopy‐based methods but technical difficulties with the new equipment need to be addressed. Overall, the existing evidence suggests that success, satisfaction rates and complication profiles of newer techniques of ablation compare favourably with hysteroscopic techniques.
 For non‐tubal subfertility, the results indicate no clear benefit for FSP over IUI. Therefore the advice offered to subfertile couples regarding the comparative use of FSP versus IUI in the treatment of non‐tubal subfertility should reflect this.
 High‐dose ibuprofen can slow the progression of lung disease in people with CF, especially in children, which suggests that strategies to modulate lung inflammation can be beneficial for people with CF.
 Treatment with 7% HS for 48 weeks showed a small improvement in FEV1 at four weeks; however, this was not sustained at 48 weeks (primary outcome measure of the only long‐term trial). Unlike RhDNAse, HS can't, in the long term, be said to improve lung function. However, it did improve quality of life and reduce pulmonary exacerbations. Delivered following a bronchodilator, HS appears inexpensive and safe with no increased infection risk.We believe there is sufficient evidence to recommend using HS in CF; qualifying this we highlight that the only long‐term trial failed to demonstrate a significant difference in its primary outcome (lung function) with improvements only in secondary outcomes.
 From the available evidence no recommendations can be made about whether tyrosine supplementation should be introduced into routine clinical practice. Further randomised controlled studies are required to provide more evidence.
 These results suggest that sphincterotomy for biliary sphincter of Oddi dysfunction appears effective in those patients with an elevated sphincter of Oddi basal pressure (>40 mmHg), but is no better than placebo in those patients with a normal basal pressure. The results reported in this review must be interpreted with caution as there are only two studies and one of the reviewers (Toouli) has been an author in both studies. Further trials by independent groups are recommended.
 The small size of this study and other methodological problems do not allow any firm conclusions to be drawn regarding the efficacy and safety of lisuride compared with bromocriptine in advanced Parkinson's disease with motor complications.
 Well designed randomised controlled trials demonstrating efficacy and safety are required before the use of lisuride in later Parkinson's disease can be supported.
 Ropinirole therapy can reduce levodopa dose but at the expense of increased dyskinetic adverse events. No clear effect on off time reduction was found but this may have been due to the under‐powering of the single evaluable trial. Inadequate data on motor impairments and disability was collected to assess these outcomes. These conclusions apply to short and medium term treatment, up to 26 weeks. Further longer term trials are required, with measurements of effectiveness, and also studies to compare the newer with the older dopamine agonists.
 In patients with Parkinson's disease and motor complications, ropinirole has similar effects to bromocriptine in terms of improving off time and reducing levodopa dose, without increasing adverse events including dyskinesia. However, these comparator studies may have been underpowered to detect clinically meaningful differences between the agonists.
 In the management of the motor complications seen in Parkinson's disease, cabergoline can be used to reduce levodopa dose and modestly improve motor impairment and disability with an acceptable adverse event profile. These conclusions are based on, at best, medium term evidence.
 Cabergoline produces similar benefits to bromocriptine in off time reduction, motor impairment and disability ratings, and levodopa dose reduction over the first three months of therapy. Dyskinesia and confusion were increased with cabergoline but otherwise the frequency of adverse events and withdrawals from treatment were similar with the two agonists.
 Melatonin is remarkably effective in preventing or reducing jet lag, and occasional short‐term use appears to be safe. It should be recommended to adult travellers flying across five or more time zones, particularly in an easterly direction, and especially if they have experienced jet lag on previous journeys. Travellers crossing 2‐4 time zones can also use it if need be.The pharmacology and toxicology of melatonin needs systematic study, and routine pharmaceutical quality control of melatonin products must be established.The effects of melatonin in people with epilepsy, and a possible interaction with warfarin, need investigation.
 No reliable conclusions can be drawn regarding the efficacy of yoga as a treatment for epilepsy. Further studies are needed.
 There is no evidence to support the routine use of aminosteroids in the management of traumatic head injury. On the basis of the existing evidence from randomised trials of aminosteroids in head injury, it is not possible to refute the possibility of moderate but potentially clinically important benefits or harms. A further randomised controlled trial of tirilazad mesylate with 1156 participants has been completed, the results of which should become available in the near future.
 This review suggests that early feeding may be associated with a trend towards better outcomes in terms of survival and disability. Further trials are required. These trials should report not only nutritional outcomes but also the effect on death and disability.
 Pedestrian safety education can result in improvement in children's knowledge and can change observed road crossing behaviour, but whether this reduces the risk of pedestrian motor vehicle collision and injury occurrence is unknown. There is evidence that changes in safety knowledge and observed behaviour decline with time, suggesting that safety education must be repeated at regular intervals.
 Compared with no treatment, use of long‐term, low‐dose antibiotics did not significantly reduce the number of repeat symptomatic and febrile UTIs in children with VUR. Considerable heterogeneity in the analyses and inclusion of only one adequately blinded study, made drawing firm conclusions challenging. Antibiotic prophylaxis significantly reduced the risk of developing new or progressive renal damage, but assuming an 8% baseline risk, 33 children would need long‐term antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent one more child developing kidney damage over the course of two to three years.The added benefit of surgical or endoscopic correction of VUR over antibiotic treatment alone remains unclear. Eight children would require combined surgical and antibiotic treatment to prevent one additional child developing febrile UTI by five years, but it would not cause fewer children developing renal damage.
 Children in their first episode of SSNS should be treated for at least three months with an increase in benefit for up to seven months of treatment. For a baseline risk for relapse following the first episode of 60% with two months of therapy, daily prednisone or prednisolone given for four weeks followed by alternate‐day therapy for six months would reduce the number of children relapsing by 33%.
 Long‐term antibiotics appear to reduce the risk of repeat symptomatic UTI in susceptible children but the benefit is small and must be considered together with the increased risk of microbial resistance.
 Short‐course treatment (3 to 6 days) could be sufficient for treating uncomplicated UTIs in elderly women, although more studies on specific commonly prescribed antibiotics are needed.
 Further comparative studies are required to examine the efficacy of immunosuppressive agents for achievement of sustained remission of nephrotic syndrome caused by minimal change disease. Studies are also needed to evaluate treatments for adults with steroid‐dependent or relapsing disease.
 Results from the single trial indicate no evidence of a beneficial effect of optic nerve decompression surgery for NAION. Future research should focus on increasing our understanding of the etiology and prognosis of NAION. New treatment options should be examined in the context of randomized clinical trials.
 The provision of recordings or summaries of key consultations may benefit most adults with cancer. Although more research is needed to improve our understanding of these interventions, most patients find them very useful. Practitioners should consider offering people recordings or written summaries of their consultations
 Surgical interventions are more effective than non‐surgical interventions in preventing the recurrence of an ingrowing toenail.In the studies comparing a surgical intervention to a surgical intervention with the application of phenol, the addition of phenol is probably more effective in preventing recurrence and regrowth of the ingrowing toenail. Because there is only one study in which the surgical interventions in both study arms were equal, more studies have to be done to confirm these outcomes.Postoperative interventions do not decrease the risk of postoperative infection, postoperative pain, or healing time.
 Shouldice herniorrhaphy is the best non‐mesh technique in terms of recurrence, though it is more time consuming and needs a slightly longer post‐operative hospital stay. The use of mesh is associated with a lower rate of recurrence. The quality of included studies, assessed with jaded scale, were low. Patients have similar characteristic in the treatment and control group but seems more healthy than in general population, this features may affect the dimension of effect in particularly recurrence rate could be higher in general population. Lost to follow‐up were similar in the treatment and control group but the reasons were often not reported. The length of follow‐up vary broadly among the studies from 1 year to 13.7 year.
 Despite the inclusion of more studies with a total of 5805 participants, there is no statistically significant evidence that patients benefit from mechanical bowel preparation, nor the use of rectal enemas. In colonic surgery the bowel cleansing can be safely omitted and induces no lower complication rate. The few studies focused in rectal surgery suggested that mechanical bowel preparation could be used selectively, even though no significant effect was found. Further research on patients submitted for elective rectal surgery, below the peritoneal verge, in whom bowel continuity is restored, and studies with patients submitted to laparoscopic surgeries are still warranted.
 Chemotherapy is effective in prolonging time to disease progression and survival in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. The survival benefit may be underestimated by this meta‐analysis, as a proportion of patients in the control arms of some trials received chemotherapy. No age related differences were found in the effectiveness of chemotherapy, but elderly patients were under represented in trials. Treatment toxicity and impact upon quality of life and symptom control have been inadequately assessed in the majority of trials and further research is needed to clarify the palliative benefit of chemotherapy.
 In those clinical settings where surgical expertise and equipment are available and affordable, diagnostic laparoscopy and LA (either in combination or separately) seem to have various advantages over OA. Some of the clinical effects of LA, however, are small and of limited clinical relevance. In spite of the mediocre quality of the available research data, we would generally recommend to use laparoscopy and LA in patients with suspected appendicitis unless laparoscopy itself is contraindicated or not feasible. Especially young female, obese, and employed patients seem to benefit from LA.
 This update confirms previous findings that combining paracetamol with codeine provided clinically useful levels of pain relief in about 50% of patients with moderate to severe postoperative pain, compared with under 20% with placebo. New information for remedication shows that the combination extended the duration of analgesia by about one hour compared to treatment with the same dose of paracetamol alone. At higher doses, more participants experienced adequate pain relief, but the amount of information available for the 1000 mg paracetamol plus 60 mg codeine dose was small, and based on limited information.
 The very substantial amount of high quality evidence demonstrates that ibuprofen is an effective analgesic in treating postoperative pain. NNTs for 200 mg and 400 mg ibuprofen did not change significantly from the previous review even when a substantial amount of new information was added. New information is provided on remedication.
 Surgical treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome relieves symptoms significantly better than splinting. Further research is needed to discover whether this conclusion applies to people with mild symptoms and whether surgical treatment is better than steroid injection.
 Local corticosteroid injection for carpal tunnel syndrome provides greater clinical improvement in symptoms one month after injection compared to placebo. Significant symptom relief beyond one month has not been demonstrated. Local corticosteroid injection provides significantly greater clinical improvement than oral corticosteroid for up to three months. Local corticosteroid injection does not significantly improve clinical outcome compared to either anti‐inflammatory treatment and splinting after eight weeks or Helium‐Neon laser treatment after six months. Two local corticosteroid injections do not provide significant added clinical benefit compared to one injection.
 In summary, preoperative chemotherapy plus surgery may offer a survival advantage compared to surgery alone for resectable thoracic esophageal cancer, but the evidence is inconclusive. There is some evidence of toxicity and preoperative mortality associated with chemotherapy.
 Interventions using counselling and education aimed at behaviour change do not reduce total or CHD mortality or clinical events in general populations but may be effective in reducing mortality in high‐risk hypertensive and diabetic populations. Risk factor declines were modest but owing to marked unexplained heterogeneity between trials, the pooled estimates are of dubious validity. Evidence suggests that health promotion interventions have limited use in general populations.
 Trials to date have on the whole been small and of poor methodological quality, making it difficult to offer any definitive recommendations on the role, if any, of house dust mite avoidance measures in the management of house dust mite sensitive perennial allergic rhinitis. The results of these studies suggest that use of acaricides and extensive bedroom‐based environmental control programmes may be of some benefit in reducing rhinitis symptoms and, if considered appropriate, these should be the interventions of choice. Isolated use of house dust mite impermeable bedding is unlikely to prove effective.
 Despite the large number of studies performed over the last three decades we still do not know whether antenatal treatment in women with presumed toxoplasmosis reduces the congenital transmission of Toxoplasma gondii. Screening is expensive, so we need to evaluate the effects of treatment, and the impact of screening programmes. In countries where screening or treatment is not routine, these technologies should not be introduced outside the context of a carefully controlled trial.
 Salt consumption during pregnancy should remain a matter of personal preference.
 This review showed that health education and peer support interventions can result in some improvements in the number of women beginning to breastfeed. Findings from these studies suggest that larger increases are likely to result from needs‐based, informal repeat education sessions than more generic, formal antenatal sessions. These findings are based only on studies conducted in the USA, among women on low incomes with varied ethnicity and feeding intention, and this raises some questions regarding generalisability to other settings.
 There is insufficient evidence on which to base recommendations for thromboprophylaxis during pregnancy and the early postnatal period. Large scale randomised trials of currently‐used interventions should be conducted.
 Synthetic progestogens should be used with significant caution in the postpartum period. The role of natural progesterone in the prevention and treatment of postpartum depression has yet to be evaluated in a randomised, placebo‐controlled trial. Oestrogen therapy may be of modest value for the treatment of severe postpartum depression. Its role in the prevention of recurrent postpartum depression has not been rigorously evaluated. Further research is warranted.
 Postnatal administration of phenobarbital cannot be recommended as prophylaxis to prevent IVH in preterm infants and is associated with an increased need for mechanical ventilation.
 Peripheral retinal ablation reduces the incidence of adverse ophthalmic outcome in premature infants with threshold ROP. In sighted eyes, peripheral retinal ablation may reduce the size of the visual field. At this stage, long term outcomes remain unknown.
 In preterm infants > 3 weeks with CLD administration of a single dose of aerosolized furosemide improves pulmonary mechanics. In view of the lack of data from randomized trials concerning effects on important clinical outcomes, routine or sustained use of aerosolized loop diuretics in infants with (or developing) CLD cannot be recommended based on current evidence.Randomized controlled trials are needed to evaluate clinically important effects of aerosolized diuretics.
 There is no clear evidence which favors delayed (when stabilized) as compared with immediate (within 24 hours of birth) timing of surgical repair of congenital diaphragmatic hernia, but a substantial advantage to either one cannot be ruled out. A large, multicenter randomized trial would be needed to answer this question.
 Based upon the limited randomised controlled evidence available, the timing of surgery was not a critical factor in determining outcome following a subarachnoid haemorrhage. Since the publication of the only randomised controlled study in 1989, techniques for the treatment of subarachnoid haemorrhage have progressed, questioning the validity of the conclusions in the modern era. Currently, most neurovascular surgeons elect to operate within 3 or 4 days of the bleed in good grade patients to minimise the chances of a devastating rebleed. However, the treatment of patients in poorer grades warrants further scrutiny in a randomised controlled trial.
 The evidence from randomised controlled trials so far does not confirm or refute that ES around the shoulder after stroke influences reports of pain, but there do appear to be benefits for passive humeral lateral rotation. A possible mechanism is through the reduction of glenohumeral subluxation. Further studies are required.
 There is no clear evidence that antidepressants are more effective than placebo in the management of patients with chronic low‐back pain. These findings do not imply that severely depressed patients with back pain should not be treated with antidepressants; furthermore, there is evidence for their use in other forms of chronic pain.
 There is insufficient evidence from randomised trials to establish the best strategies for enhancing mobility after hip fracture surgery.
 Insufficient evidence exists from randomised trials to confirm the relative effects of open versus closed reduction of intracapsular fractures, or the effects of intra‐operative impaction or compression of an intracapsular fracture treated by internal fixation.
 There is good evidence that cementing the prostheses in place will reduce post‐operative pain and lead to better mobility. From the trials to date there is no evidence of any difference in outcome between bipolar and unipolar prosthesis. There is some evidence that a total hip replacement leads to better functional outcome than a hemiarthroplasty. Further well‐conducted randomised trials are required.
 There is currently insufficient evidence from randomised trials to determine the optimum surgical approach for insertion of a hemiarthroplasty to the hip.
 Internal fixation is associated with less initial operative trauma but has an increased risk of re‐operation on the hip. Definite conclusions cannot be made for differences in pain and residual disability between the two groups. Future studies should concentrate on better reporting of final outcome measures and function. There is still a need for studies to define which patient groups are better served by the different treatment methods.
 We feel that the inclusion of any studies less rigorous than randomised trials would result in misleading findings and that it is not unreasonable to expect well designed, conducted and reported randomised controlled trials of day centre care. More precise nomenclature would greatly help identify relevant work. At present non‐randomised comparative studies give conflicting messages about the roles provided by day centres and the clinical and social needs they are able to meet. It is therefore probably best that people with serious mental illness and their carers, if given the choice, take a pragmatic decision on which type of unit best meets their needs. There is a clear need for randomised controlled trials of day centre care compared to other forms of day care, and when resources are limited, day centre care within the context of a pragmatic randomised trial may be the only way of ensuring equity of provision.
 There is a gap in the evidence regarding patient‐held, personalised, accessible clinical information for people with psychotic illnesses. It cannot be assumed that patient‐held information is beneficial or cost‐effective without evidence from well planned, conducted and reported randomised trials.
 Sertindole at a dose of 20mg/day was found to be more antipsychotic than placebo. When used at 8, 12 or 20mg/day it appears to be as acceptable as placebo (in terms of various adverse events including movement disorders and somnolence), but seems to be associated with more cardiac problems (8, 12 or 20mg/day) and an increase in weight gain (20mg/day) than placebo.Sertindole at a dose of 24mg/day was better tolerated than haloperidol (in terms of participants leaving the study early). It was also found to be was associated with fewer movement disorders (at 8, 16, 20 or 24mg/day) and sedation (8 or 24mg/day) than haloperidol. However, it was shown to cause more cardiac anomalies (16, 20 or 24mg/day), weight gain (all doses combined), rhinitis (16 or 24mg/day), and problems with sexual functioning (24mg/day) than haloperidol. One short term study reported that sertindole 16mg/day was the most optimal dose.
 Depot perphenazine is in clinical use in the Nordic countries, Belgium, Portugal and the Netherlands. At a conservative estimate, a quarter of a million people suffer from schizophrenia in those countries and could be treated with depot perphenazine. The total number of participants in the four trials with useful data is 313. None of the studies observed the effects of oral versus depot antipsychotic drugs. Until well conducted and reported randomised trials are undertaken clinicians will be in doubt as to the effects of perphenazine depots and people with schizophrenia should exercise their own judgement or ask to be randomised.
 Participant numbers in each comparison were small and we found no clear differences between fluspirilene and oral medication or other depots. The choice of whether to use fluspirilene as a depot medication and whether it has advantages over other depots cannot, at present, be informed by trial‐derived data. Well‐conducted and reported randomised trials are still needed to inform practice.
 Minimal poorly reported trial data suggests that bromperidol decanoate may be better than placebo injection but less valuable than fluphenazine or haloperidol decanoate. If bromperidol decanoate is available it may be a viable choice, especially when there are reasons not to use fluphenazine or haloperidol decanoate. Well‐conducted and reported randomised trials are needed to inform practice.
 Although well‐conducted and reported randomised trials are still needed to fully inform practice (no trial data exists reporting hospital and services outcomes, satisfaction with care and economics) pipotiazine palmitate is a viable choice for both clinician and recipient of care.
 GTR has a greater effect on probing measures of periodontal treatment than open flap debridement, including improved attachment gain, reduced pocket depth, less increase in gingival recession and more gain in hard tissue probing at re‐entry surgery. However there is marked variability between studies and the clinical relevance of these changes is unknown. As a result, it is difficult to draw general conclusions about the clinical benefit of GTR. Whilst there is evidence that GTR can demonstrate a significant improvement over conventional open flap surgery, the factors affecting outcomes are unclear from the literature and these might include study conduct issues such as bias. Therefore, patients and health professionals need to consider the predictability of the technique compared with other methods of treatment before making final decisions on use. Since trial reports were often incomplete, we recommend that future trials should follow the CONSORT statement both in their conduct and reporting.There is therefore little value in future research repeating simple, small efficacy studies. The priority should be to identify factors associated with improved outcomes as well as investigating outcomes relevant to patients. Types of research might include large observational studies to generate hypotheses for testing in clinical trials, qualitative studies on patient‐centred outcomes and trials exploring innovative analytic methods such as multilevel modelling. Open flap surgery should remain the control comparison in these studies.
 There is no evidence to support the use of beta2‐agonists in children with acute cough who do not have evidence of airflow obstruction. There is also little evidence that the routine use of beta2‐agonists is helpful for adults with acute cough. These agents may reduce symptoms, including cough, in people with evidence of airflow obstruction. However, this potential benefit is not well‐supported by the available data and must be weighed against the adverse effects associated with their use.
 Steam inhalation has not shown any consistent benefits in the treatment of the common cold, hence is not recommended in the routine treatment of common cold symptoms until more double‐blind, randomised trials with a standardised treatment modality are conducted.
 Medical day hospital care for the elderly appears to be more effective than no intervention but may have no clear advantage over other forms of comprehensive elderly medical services.
 Evidence from RCTs suggests that the choice of sclerosant, dose, formulation (foam versus liquid), local pressure dressing, degree and length of compression have no significant effect on the efficacy of sclerotherapy for varicose veins. The evidence supports the current place of sclerotherapy in modern clinical practice, which is usually limited to treatment of recurrent varicose veins following surgery and thread veins. Surgery versus sclerotherapy is the subject of a further Cochrane Review.
 Pentoxifylline is an effective adjunct to compression bandaging for treating venous ulcers and may be effective in the absence of compression. The majority of adverse effects were gastrointestinal disturbances.
 People at high risk of developing pressure ulcers should use higher‐specification foam mattresses rather than standard hospital foam mattresses. The relative merits of higher‐specification constant low‐pressure and alternating‐pressure support surfaces for preventing pressure ulcers are unclear, but alternating‐pressure mattresses may be more cost effective than alternating‐pressure overlays in a UK context. Medical grade sheepskins are associated with a decrease in pressure ulcer development. Organisations might consider the use of some forms of pressure relief for high risk patients in the operating theatre.
 Bilayer artificial skin, used in conjunction with compression bandaging, increases venous ulcer healing compared with a simple dressing plus compression. Further research is needed to assess whether other forms of skin grafts increase ulcer healing.
 There is evidence from one trial that prophylactic antibiotics reduces the risk of infection after human bites but confirmatory research is required. There is no evidence that the use of prophylactic antibiotics is effective for cat or dog bites. There is evidence that the use of antibiotic prophylactic after bites of the hand reduces infection but confirmatory research is required.
 No differences were identified among the different doses of corticosteroids in acute asthma requiring hospital admission. Low dose corticosteroids (< or = 80 mg/day of methylprednisolone or < or = 400 mg/day of hydrocortisone) appear to be adequate in the initial management of these adult patients. Higher doses do not appear to offer a therapeutic advantage.
 Due to the paucity of trials, the available evidence does not permit a reliable conclusion as to whether speleo‐therapeutic interventions are effective for the treatment of chronic asthma. Randomized controlled trials with long‐term follow‐up are necessary
 Long‐term home oxygen therapy improved survival in a selected group of COPD patients with severe hypoxaemia (arterial PaO2 less than 55 mm Hg (8.0 kPa)). Home oxygen therapy did not appear to improve survival in patients with mild to moderate hypoxaemia or in those with only arterial desaturation at night.
 The failure of the largest and best conducted studies to detect an effect on prevalence of smoking is disappointing. A community approach will remain an important part of health promotion activities, but designers of future programmes will need to take account of this limited effect in determining the scale of projects and the resources devoted to them.
 While brief counselling interventions have been identified as successful ifor adults when delivered by physicians, this cannot be extrapolated to adults as parents in child health settings. However, there is limited support for more intensive counselling interventions for parents in such contexts. There is no clear evidence of differences between the respiratory, non‐respiratory ill child, well child and peripartum settings as contexts for reduction of children's ETS exposure.
 Subjects in these trials were similar to those seen in earlier anti dementia AD trials, consisting primarily of mildly to moderately impaired outpatients. Galantamine's effect on more severely impaired subjects has not yet been assessed. Nevertheless, this review shows consistent positive effects for galantamine for trials of three to six months' duration. Although there was not a statistically significant dose‐response effect, doses above 8 mg/d were, for the most part, consistently statistically significant. Galantamine's safety profile in AD is similar to that of other cholinesterase inhibitors with respect to cholinergically mediated gastrointestinal symptoms. It appears that doses of 16 mg/d were best tolerated in the single trial where medication was titrated over a four week period, and because this dose showed statistically indistinguishable efficacy with higher doses, it is probably most preferable initially. Longer term use of galantamine has not been assessed in a controlled fashion. Galantamine use in MCI is not recommended due to its association with an excess death rate.
 The use of antagonist compared with long GnRH agonist protocols was associated with a large reduction in OHSS and there was no evidence of a difference in live‐birth rates.
 NSAIDs are an effective treatment for dysmenorrhoea, though women using them need to be aware of the significant risk of adverse effects. There is insufficient evidence to determine which (if any) individual NSAID is the safest and most effective for the treatment of dysmenorrhoea.
 There is currently no evidence from randomised studies that influenza vaccine given to people with cystic fibrosis is of benefit to them. There remains a need for a well‐constructed clinical study, that assesses the effectiveness of influenza vaccination on important clinical outcome measures.
 Traditional slings seem to be as effective as minimally invasive slings, but had higher rates of adverse effects. This should be interpreted with some caution however, as the quality of evidence for the studies was variable, follow‐up short and populations small, particularly for identifying complication rates. Tradional sling procedures appeared to confer a similar cure rate in comparison to open retropubic colposuspension, but the long term adverse event profile is still unclear. Reliable evidence to clarify whether or not traditional suburethral slings may be better or worse than other surgical or conservative management options is lacking.
 There were not enough data to allow comparison of anterior vaginal repair with physical therapy or needle suspension for primary urinary stress incontinence in women. Open abdominal retropubic suspension appeared to be better than anterior vaginal repair judged on subjective cure rates in eight trials, even in women who had prolapse in addition to stress incontinence (six trials). The need for repeat incontinence surgery was also less after the abdominal operation. However, there was not enough information about post‐operative complications and morbidity.
 The place of mechanical devices in the management of urinary incontinence remains in question. Currently there is little evidence from controlled trials on which to judge whether their use is better than no treatment and large well‐conducted trials are required for clarification. There was also insufficient evidence in favour of one device over another and little evidence to compare mechanical devices with other forms of treatment.
 The review is striking for the lack of high quality randomised controlled trials on faecal incontinence surgery that have been carried out in the last 10 years. Those trials that have been carried out have focused on sacral neuromodulation and injectable bulking agents, both reported in separate reviews. The continued small number of relevant trials identified together with their small sample sizes and other methodological weaknesses limit the usefulness of this review for guiding practice. It was impossible to identify or refute clinically important differences between the alternative surgical procedures. Larger rigorous trials are still needed. However, it should be recognised that the optimal treatment regime may be a complex combination of various surgical and non‐surgical therapies.
 The small sample size of included trials together with their methodological weaknesses severely limit the usefulness of this review for guiding practice. It is impossible to identify or refute clinically important differences between the alternative surgical operations. Larger rigorous trials are needed to improve the evidence with which to define optimum surgical treatment for rectal prolapse: the results of one such trial are awaited.
 A clinically relevant effect of systematic desensitisation when compared with any of the control interventions cannot be ruled out. None of the included trials compared other behaviour therapies (e.g. cognitive behaviour therapy, sex therapy) to pharmacological interventions. The findings are limited by the evidence available and as such conclusions about the efficacy of interventions for the treatment of vaginismus should be drawn cautiously.
 There still remains considerable uncertainty about which forms of psychosocial and physical treatments of self‐harm patients are most effective, inclusion of insufficient numbers of patients in trials being the main limiting factor. There is a need for larger trials of treatments associated with trends towards reduced rates of repetition of deliberate self‐harm. The results of small single trials which have been associated with statistically significant reductions in repetition must be interpreted with caution and it is desirable that such trials are also replicated.
 SSRIs are more effective than placebo for OCD, at least in the short‐term, although there are differences between the adverse effects of individual SSRI drugs. The longer term efficacy and tolerability of different SSRI drugs for OCD has yet to be established.
 This updated review of RCTs conducted almost 20 years ago suggest that follow‐up programs based on regular physical examinations and yearly mammography alone are as effective as more intensive approaches based on regular performance of laboratory and instrumental tests in terms of timeliness of recurrence detection, overall survival and quality of life.In one RCT, follow‐up care performed by trained general practitioners working in an organized practice setting had comparable effectiveness to that delivered by hospital‐based specialists in terms of quality of life and time to detection of distant metastases.
 We have not found evidence that a significant difference exists between phenytoin and valproate for the outcomes examined in this review. However misclassification of seizure type may have confounded the results of this review. Results do not apply to absence or myoclonus seizure types. No outright evidence was found to support or refute current treatment policies.
 To date, few well‐designed RCTs have considered the treatment of infantile spasms, and the numbers of patients enrolled have been small. In the majority, methodology has been poor, hence it is not clear which treatment is optimal in the treatment of this epilepsy syndrome. Hormonal treatment resolves spasms in more infants than vigabatrin, but this may or may not translate into better long‐term outcomes. If prednisolone or vigabatrin is used, high dosage is recommended. Vigabatrin may be the treatment of choice in tuberous sclerosis. Resolution of the EEG features may be important, but this has not been proven. Further research using large studies with robust methodology is required.
 Late radiation cystitis is a relatively uncommon treatment complication and there are obvious difficulties in identifying sufficient patients to participate in a RCT. The number of published reports is a reflection of the degree of medical interest that exists in providing therapeutic solutions for late radiation cystitis. However, in spite of the two studies of level IIA evidence and the solitary RCT it is difficult to draw any firm conclusions.
 The timing and dose intensity of cisplatin‐based neoadjuvant chemotherapy appears to have an important impact on whether or not it benefits women with locally advanced cervical cancer and warrants further exploration. Obtaining additional IPD may improve the strength of these conclusions.
 The question as to whether people with AMD should take Ginkgo biloba extract to prevent progression of the disease has not been answered by research to date. Two small trials have suggested possible benefit of Gingko biloba on vision and further trials are warranted. Ginkgo biloba is widely used in China, Germany, and France. Future trials should be larger, and last longer, in order to provide a more robust measure of the effect of Gingko biloba extract on AMD.
 Evidence suggests there is no difference in pregnancy rates among LNG‐20 IUS, IUD >250mm2 and Norplant‐2 users. The LNG‐20 IUS more effectively prevented intrauterine and extrauterine pregnancies than IUDs ≤250mm2. P4‐IUS was significantly more effective than non‐medicated IUDs, but no difference was observed when compared to IUDs ≤250mm2. Continuation rates for LNG‐20 IUS, non‐hormonal IUDs and Norplant‐2 were similar. Lack of menstrual bleeding was the main reason for discontinuation of LNG‐20 IUS.Recent evidence, from studies meeting the review inclusion criteria for the update conducted in July 2009, suggests that the LNG‐20 IUS does not impact upon breastfeeding performance or the growth and development of breastfed infants in lactating women nor did the device have an adverse effect on glucose metabolism among insulin‐dependent diabetic women.
 Insertion of an IUD immediately after abortion is safe and practical. IUD expulsion rates appear higher than after interval insertions. However, IUD use is higher at six months with immediate than with interval insertion.
 There is not enough evidence to evaluate a policy of routine antibiotic prophylaxis to women with incomplete abortion.
 Data from two new trials comparing SA and cryotherapy have allowed a better appraisal of their effectiveness. The evidence remains more consistent for SA, but only shows a modest therapeutic effect. Overall, trials comparing cryotherapy with placebo showed no significant difference in effectiveness, but the same was also true for trials comparing cryotherapy with SA. Only one trial showed cryotherapy to be better than both SA and placebo, and this was only for hand warts. Adverse effects, such as pain, blistering, and scarring, were not consistently reported but are probably more common with cryotherapy.None of the other reviewed treatments appeared safer or more effective than SA and cryotherapy. Two trials of clear duct tape demonstrated no advantage over placebo. Dinitrochlorobenzene (and possibly other similar contact sensitisers) may be useful for the treatment of refractory warts.
 There is conclusive evidence that topical tretinoin improves the appearance of mild to moderate photodamage on the face and forearms, in the short‐term. However erythema, scaling/dryness, burning/stinging and irritation may be experienced initially.There is limited evidence that tazarotene and isotretinoin benefit patients with moderate photodamage on the face: both are associated with skin irritation and erythema. The effectiveness of other interventions remains uncertain.
 PGE1 was beneficial for many participants with ED of different aetiology. Adverse effects were proportional to dosage, albeit never serious. The use of PGE1 in ED could have been better interpreted if its effectiveness were compared by aetiology and with different forms of administrations, a longer follow‐up were considered and more emphasis given to patient/partner relationships and quality of life.
 The review showed that laparoscopic repair takes longer and has a more serious complication rate in respect of visceral (especially bladder) and vascular injuries, but recovery is quicker with less persisting pain and numbness. Reduced hernia recurrence of around 30‐50% was related to the use of mesh rather than the method of mesh placement.
 The review authors do not recommend prophylactic epidural blood patch over other treatments because there are too few trial participants to allow reliable conclusions to be drawn. However, therapeutic epidural blood patch showed a benefit over conservative treatment, based on the limited available evidence.
 Radiotherapy is clearly effective at reducing pain from painful bone metastases. There was no evidence of any difference in efficacy between different fractionation schedules, nor indeed of a dose‐response with total dose of radiation. For treatment of generalised bone pain both hemibody irradiation and radioisotopes can reduce the number of painful new sites.
 Aerobic exercise appears to be safe and may be beneficial for adults living with HIV. These findings are limited by the small sample sizes and large withdrawal rates described in the studies. Future research would benefit from participant follow‐up and intention‐to‐treat analysis. Further research is required to determine the optimal parameters in which aerobic exercise may be most beneficial for adults living with HIV.
 The evidence from randomised controlled trials shows that intravenous immunoglobulin improves disability for at least two to six weeks compared with placebo, with a number needed to treat of 3.00. During this period it has similar efficacy to plasma exchange and oral prednisolone. In one large trial, benefit of IVIg persisted for 24 and possibly 48 weeks.
 Based on existing trials, there was no clear evidence that preoperative radiotherapy improves the survival of patients with potentially resectable esophageal cancer. These results indicate that if such preoperative radiotherapy regimens do improve survival, then the effect is likely to be modest with an absolute improvement in survival of around 3 to 4%. Trials or a meta‐analysis of around 2000 patients (90% power, 5% significance level) would be needed to reliably detect such an improvement (from 15 to 20%).
 Exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation is effective in reducing total and cardiovascular mortality (in medium to longer term studies) and hospital admissions (in shorter term studies) but not total MI or revascularisation (CABG or PTCA). Despite inclusion of more recent trials, the population studied in this review is still predominantly male, middle aged and low risk. Therefore, well‐designed, and adequately reported RCTs in groups of CHD patients more representative of usual clinical practice are still needed. These trials should include validated health‐related quality of life outcome measures, need to explicitly report clinical events including hospital admission, and assess costs and cost‐effectiveness.
 In children with OME the effect of grommets on hearing, as measured by standard tests, appears small and diminishes after six to nine months by which time natural resolution also leads to improved hearing in the non‐surgically treated children. No effect was found on other child outcomes but data on these were sparse. No study has been performed in children with established speech, language, learning or developmental problems so no conclusions can be made regarding treatment of such children.
 Adeno‐/tonsillectomy is effective in reducing the number of episodes of sore throat and days with sore throats in children, the gain being more marked in those most severely affected. The size of the effect is modest, but there may be a benefit to knowing the precise timing of one episode of pain lasting several days ‐ it occurs immediately after surgery as a direct consequence of it.It is clear that some children get better without any surgery, and that whilst removing the tonsils will always prevent 'tonsillitis', the impact of the procedure on 'sore throats' due to pharyngitis is much less predictable.
 Small studies suggest that there are no major differences in clinical outcomes for mothers or babies between antenatal day units or hospital admission, but women may prefer day care.
 There is insufficient evidence for any reliable estimates of the effects of plasma volume expansion for women with pre‐eclampsia.[Note: The 14 citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 No information is available from randomised trials to indicate whether routine preconceptional or antenatal screening for fragile X carrier status confers any benefit over testing women thought to be at increased risk.
 No clear practice recommendations can be drawn from the results of this review on this clinically important question, related to a paucity of reliable data. Further well‐designed randomised controlled trials are needed to assess the effects of routine use of maternal antibiotics for women with prelabour rupture of the membranes at or near term.
 Oxytocin appears to be beneficial for the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage. However, there is insufficient information about other outcomes and side‐effects hence it is difficult to be confident about the trade‐offs for these benefits. There seems little evidence in favour of ergot alkaloids alone compared to either oxytocin alone, or to ergometrine‐oxytocin, but the data are sparse. More trials are needed in domiciliary deliveries in developing countries, which shoulder most of the burden of third stage complications.[Note: The ten citations in the awaiting classification section of the review may alter the conclusions of the review once assessed.]
 Because of the inclusion of multiple interventions in most studies, the determination of the effect of any single intervention is difficult. Although there is evidence of limited benefit of developmental care interventions overall, and no major harmful effects reported, there were a large number of outcomes for which no or conflicting effects were demonstrated. The single trials that did show a significant effect of an intervention on a major clinical outcome were based on small sample sizes, and the findings were often not supported in other small trials.Before a clear direction for practice can be supported, evidence demonstrating more consistent effects of developmental care interventions on important short‐ and long‐term clinical outcomes is needed. The economic impact of the implementation and maintenance of developmental care practices should be considered by individual institutions.
 There is insufficient evidence to recommend the use of erythromycin in low or high doses for preterm infants with or at risk of feeding intolerance. Future research is needed to determine if there is a more precise dose range where erythromycin might be effective as a prokinetic agent in preterm infants > 32 weeks' GA.
 Based on the available trials, the evidence does not support the administration of oral immunoglobulin for the prevention of NEC. There are no randomised controlled trials of oral IgA alone for the prevention of NEC.
 In preterm infants > 3 weeks of age with CLD, acute and chronic administration of distal diuretics improve pulmonary mechanics. However, positive effects should be interpreted with caution as the numbers of patients studied are small in surprisingly few randomized controlled trials.
 Small sample sizes, methodologic limitations, inconsistencies in controlling variables that may affect outcomes, and conflicting results of the studies to date make it difficult to make universal recommendations regarding the best tube feeding method for premature infants less than 1500 grams. The clinical benefits and risks of continuous versus intermittent nasogastric tube milk feeding cannot be reliably discerned from the limited information available from randomised trials to date.
 For patients who presented with arterial vascular disease, there was no evidence that dipyridamole, in the presence or absence of another antiplatelet drug reduced the risk of vascular death, though it reduces the risk of further vascular events. This benefit was found only in patients presenting after cerebral ischaemia. There was no evidence that dipyridamole alone was more efficacious than aspirin.
 No definitive conclusions can be drawn concerning effectiveness of orthotic devices for lateral epicondylitis. More well‐designed and well‐conducted RCTs of sufficient power are warranted.
 The effectiveness of physical conditioning as part of a return to work strategy in reducing sick leave for workers with back pain, compared to usual care or exercise therapy, remains uncertain. For workers with acute back pain, physical conditioning may have no effect on sickness absence duration. There is conflicting evidence regarding the reduction of sickness absence duration with intense physical conditioning versus usual care for workers with subacute back pain. It may be that including workplace visits or execution of the intervention at the workplace is the component that renders a physical conditioning programme effective. For workers with chronic back pain physical conditioning has a small effect on reducing sick leave compared to care as usual after 12 months follow‐up. To what extent physical conditioning as part of integrated care management may alter the effect on sick leave for workers with chronic back pain needs further research.
 There is moderate evidence that lumbar supports are not more effective than no intervention or training in preventing low‐back pain, and conflicting evidence whether they are effective supplements to other preventive interventions. It remains unclear whether lumbar supports are more effective than no or other interventions for treating low‐back pain.There is still a need for high quality randomised trials on the effectiveness of lumbar supports. One of the most essential issues to tackle in these future trials seems to be the realization of an adequate compliance. Special attention should be paid to different outcome measures, types of patients and types of lumbar support.
 There is insufficient evidence to support the use of injection therapy in subacute and chronic low‐back pain. However, it cannot be ruled out that specific subgroups of patients may respond to a specific type of injection therapy.
 There is insufficient evidence from randomised trials to support the routine use of closed suction drainage in orthopaedic surgery. Further randomised trials with larger patient numbers are required for different operations before definite conclusions can be made for all types of orthopaedic operations.
 To date there is no evidence of effective treatment in preventing malignant transformation of leukoplakia. Treatments may be effective in the resolution of lesion, however relapses and adverse effects are common.
 The application of sealants is a recommended procedure to prevent or control caries. Sealing the occlusal surfaces of permanent molars in children and adolescents reduces caries up to 48 months when compared to no sealant, after longer follow‐up the quantity and quality of the evidence is reduced. The review revealed that sealants are effective in high risk children but information on the magnitude of the benefit of sealing in other conditions is scarce. The relative effectiveness of different types of sealants has yet to be established.
 There is no good evidence for or against the effectiveness of OTC medicines in acute cough. The results of this review have to be interpreted with caution due to differences in study characteristics and quality. Studies often showed conflicting results with uncertainty regarding clinical relevance. Higher quality evidence is needed to determine the effectiveness of self care treatments for acute cough.
 The review shows no clinically important difference between third generation cephalosporins (ceftriaxone or cefotaxime) and conventional antibiotics (ampicillin‐chloramphenicol combination, or chloramphenicol alone). Therefore the choice of antibiotic will depend on cost and availability. The antimicrobial resistance pattern against various antibiotics needs to be closely monitored in low‐ to middle‐income countries as well as high‐income countries.
 These small trials suggest varicella vaccine administered within three days to children following household contact with a varicella case reduces infection rates and severity of cases. No RCTs for adolescents or adults were identified. However safety was not adequately addressed.
 The results from the four trials to date demonstrate no advantage to early repair (via open or endovascular surgery) for small AAA (4.0 to 5.5 cm) and suggest that 'best care' for these patients favours surveillance. Furthermore, the more recent trials focused on the efficacy of endovascular aneurysm repair and still failed to show benefit. Thus, both open and endovascular repair of small AAAs are not supported by currently available evidence.
 There is insufficient evidence to determine whether the choice of topical agent or dressing affects the healing of arterial leg ulcers. Inadequate description of the people in the one included trial means that the results cannot be easily applied to other clinical populations.
 High intensity behavioural interventions that begin during a hospital stay and include at least one month of supportive contact after discharge promote smoking cessation among hospitalised patients. The effect of these interventions was independent of the patient's admitting diagnosis and was found in rehabilitation settings as well as acute care hospitals. There was no evidence of effect for interventions of lower intensity or shorter duration. This update found that adding NRT to intensive counselling significantly increases cessation rates over counselling alone. There is insufficient direct evidence to conclude that adding bupropion or varenicline to intensive counselling increases cessation rates over what is achieved by counselling alone.
 There is evidence that IUI with OH increases the live birth rate compared to IUI alone. The likelihood of pregnancy was also increased for treatment with IUI compared to TI in stimulated cycles. One adequately powered multicentre trial showed no evidence of effect of IUI in natural cycles compared with expectant management. There is insufficient data on multiple pregnancies and other adverse events for treatment with OH. Therefore couples should be fully informed about the risks of IUI and OH as well as alternative treatment options.
 First‐line low‐dose thiazides reduce all morbidity and mortality outcomes. First‐line ACE inhibitors and calcium channel blockers may be similarly effective but the evidence is less robust. First‐line high‐dose thiazides and first‐line beta‐blockers are inferior to first‐line low‐dose thiazides.
 There was weak evidence to suggest that use of an adrenergic agonist was better than placebo treatment. There was not enough evidence to assess the effects of adrenergic agonists when compared to or combined with other treatments. Further larger trials are needed to identify when adrenergics may be useful. Patients using adrenergic agonists may suffer from minor side effects, which sometimes cause them to stop treatment. Rare but serious side effects, such as cardiac arrhythmias and hypertension, have been reported.
 The value of the various approaches to conservative management of postprostatectomy incontinence after radical prostatectomy remains uncertain. It seems unlikely that men benefit from one‐to‐one pelvic floor muscle training therapy after transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP).  Long‐term incontinence may be managed by external penile clamp, but there are safety problems.
 Psychological therapy based on CBT principles is effective in reducing anxiety symptoms for short‐term treatment of GAD. The body of evidence comparing CBT with other psychological therapies is small and heterogeneous, which precludes drawing conclusions about which psychological therapy is more effective. Further studies examining non‐CBT models are required to inform health care policy on the most appropriate forms of psychological therapy in treating GAD.
 Helmets reduce bicycle‐related head and facial injuries for bicyclists of all ages involved in all types of crashes, including those involving motor vehicles. Our response to comments from critics are presented in the Feedback section.
 There is no evidence to suggest that MAST/PASG application reduces mortality, length of hospitalisation or length of ICU stay in trauma patients and it is possible that it may increase these. These data do not support the continued use of MAST/PASG in the situation described. However, it should be recognised that, due to the poor quality of the trials, conclusions should be drawn with caution.
 Interventions for problem drinking appear to reduce injuries and their antecedents (e.g. falls, motor vehicle crashes, suicide attempts). Because injuries account for much of the morbidity and mortality from problem drinking, larger studies are warranted to evaluate the effect of treating problem drinking on injuries.
 Antibiotic treatment reduces the risk of active trachoma and ocular chlamydial infection in people infected with C. trachomatis, but we do not know for certain the size of the treatment effect in individuals. Mass antibiotic treatment with single‐dose oral azithromycin reduces the prevalence of active trachoma and ocular infection in communities.
 Well‐designed, masked, randomised controlled trials using standardised methods are needed to establish the benefits of new and existing prophylactic and treatment regimes for recurrent corneal erosion. International consensus is also needed to progress research efforts towards evaluation of the major effective treatments for recurrent corneal erosions.
 The overall quality of evidence was moderate. Half of these postpartum interventions led to fewer repeat pregnancies or births or more contraceptive use. However, the evidence of intervention effectiveness was of low to moderate quality. Trials with evidence of effectiveness included two that provided one or two sessions and three that had multiple contacts. The former had limitations, such as self‐reported outcomes and showing no effect for many comparisons. The interventions with multiple sessions were promising but would have to be adapted for other locations and then retested. Researchers and health care providers will have to determine which intervention might be appropriate for their setting and level of resources.
 There is strong evidence from three trials that personalised risk estimates incorporated within communication interventions for screening programmes enhance informed choices. However the evidence for increasing the uptake of such screening tests with similar interventions is weak, and it is not clear if this increase is associated with informed choices. Studies included a diverse range of screening programmes. Therefore, data from this review do not allow us to draw conclusions about the best interventions to deliver personalised risk communication for enhancing informed decisions. The results are dominated by findings from the topic area of mammography and colorectal cancer. Caution is therefore required in generalising from these results, and particularly for clinical topics other than mammography and colorectal cancer screening.
 The lack of good quality evidence does not enable any conclusions to be drawn about the effectiveness of lasers for treating atrophic or ice‐pick acne scars. Well designed randomised controlled comparisons of carbon dioxide versus Erbium:YAG laser are urgently needed.
 Naltrexone appears to be an effective and safe strategy in alcoholism treatment. Even though the sizes of treatment effects might appear moderate in their magnitudes, these should be valued against the background of the relapsing nature of alcoholism and the limited therapeutic options currently available for its treatment.
 High quality evidence showed no significant benefit from anti‐herpes simplex antivirals compared with placebo in producing complete recovery from Bell's palsy. Moderate quality evidence showed that antivirals were significantly less likely than corticosteroids to produce complete recovery.
 We found strong evidence to support beneficial effects of child obesity prevention programmes on BMI, particularly for programmes targeted to children aged six to 12 years. However, given the unexplained heterogeneity and the likelihood of small study bias, these findings must be interpreted cautiously. A broad range of programme components were used in these studies and whilst it is not possible to distinguish which of these components contributed most to the beneficial effects observed, our synthesis indicates the following to be promising policies and strategies:·         school curriculum that includes healthy eating, physical activity and body image·         increased sessions for physical activity and the development of fundamental movement skills throughout the school week·         improvements in nutritional quality of the food supply in schools·         environments and cultural practices that support children eating healthier foods and being active throughout each day·         support for teachers and other staff to implement health promotion strategies and activities (e.g. professional development, capacity building activities)·         parent support and home activities that encourage children to be more active, eat more nutritious foods and spend less time in screen based activitiesHowever, study and evaluation designs need to be strengthened, and reporting extended to capture process and implementation factors, outcomes in relation to measures of equity, longer term outcomes, potential harms and costs.Childhood obesity prevention research must now move towards identifying how effective intervention components can be embedded within health, education and care systems and achieve long term sustainable impacts.  
 While there is limited quality data to recommend one treatment program to be favoured over another, this review shows that combined behavioural lifestyle interventions compared to standard care or self‐help can produce a significant and clinically meaningful reduction in overweight in children and adolescents. In obese adolescents, consideration should be given to the use of either orlistat or sibutramine, as an adjunct to lifestyle interventions, although this approach needs to be carefully weighed up against the potential for adverse effects. Furthermore, high quality research that considers psychosocial determinants for behaviour change, strategies to improve clinician‐family interaction, and cost‐effective programs for primary and community care is required.
 There is insufficient evidence to say whether betahistine has any effect on Ménière's disease.
 There is no evidence that the use of perioperative local anaesthetic in patients undergoing tonsillectomy improves post‐operative pain control. The trials identified were of small size and several involved the perioperative co‐administration of intravenous opiates which may have masked any beneficial effect of the local anaesthetic. Further randomised controlled trials are necessary.
 There are insufficient data to support evidence‐based recommendations regarding the use of adjunctive corticosteroids in people with tuberculous pleurisy. Randomized controlled trials that are sufficiently powered to evaluate the effects of corticosteroids on both morbidity and mortality are needed. The effects of corticosteroids on HIV‐related complications, such as Kaposi sarcoma, should be assessed in people co‐infected with HIV.
 If we assume that screening reduces breast cancer mortality by 15% and that overdiagnosis and overtreatment is at 30%, it means that for every 2000 women invited for screening throughout 10 years, one will avoid dying of breast cancer and 10 healthy women, who would not have been diagnosed if there had not been screening, will be treated unnecessarily. Furthermore, more than 200 women will experience important psychological distress including anxiety and uncertainty for years because of false positive findings. To help ensure that the women are fully informed before they decide whether or not to attend screening, we have written an evidence‐based leaflet for lay people that is available in several languages on www.cochrane.dk. Because of substantial advances in treatment and greater breast cancer awareness since the trials were carried out, it is likely that the absolute effect of screening today is smaller than in the trials. Recent observational studies show more overdiagnosis than in the trials and very little or no reduction in the incidence of advanced cancers with screening.
 A few non‐invasive physical treatments may be effective as prophylactic treatments for chronic/recurrent headaches. Based on trial results, these treatments appear to be associated with little risk of serious adverse effects. The clinical effectiveness and cost‐effectiveness of non‐invasive physical treatments require further research using scientifically rigorous methods. The heterogeneity of the studies included in this review means that the results of a few additional high‐quality trials in the future could easily change the conclusions of our review.
 Weak evidence exists for the effectiveness of protein and energy feeds. Adequately sized randomised trials with robust methodology are required. In particular, the role of dietetic assistants, and peripheral venous feeding require further evaluation.
 There is no convincing evidence that desmopressin (DDAVP) minimises peri‐operative allogeneic RBC transfusion in patients who do not have congenital bleeding disorders. Although the data suggest that there is some benefit of using DDAVP as a means of reducing peri‐operative blood loss the observed reductions were small and generally not clinically important. Based on the currently available evidence, the use of DDAVP to reduce peri‐operative blood loss or allogeneic RBC transfusion cannot be supported.
 Anti‐fibrinolytic drugs provide worthwhile reductions in blood loss and the receipt of allogeneic red cell transfusion. Aprotinin appears to be slightly more effective than the lysine analogues in reducing blood loss and the receipt of blood transfusion. However, head to head comparisons show a lower risk of death with lysine analogues when compared with aprotinin. The lysine analogues are effective in reducing blood loss during and after surgery, and appear to be free of serious adverse effects.
 The results suggest cell salvage is efficacious in reducing the need for allogeneic red cell transfusion in adult elective cardiac and orthopaedic surgery. The use of cell salvage did not appear to impact adversely on clinical outcomes. However, the methodological quality of trials was poor. As the trials were unblinded and lacked adequate concealment of treatment allocation, transfusion practices may have been influenced by knowledge of the patients' treatment status potentially biasing the results in favour of cell salvage.
 The evidence for the benefits and risks of correcting metabolic acidosis is very limited with no RCTs in pre‐ESRD patients, none in children, and only three small trials in dialysis patients. These trials suggest there may be some beneficial effects on both protein and bone metabolism but the trials were underpowered to provide robust evidence.
 Reducing protein intake in patients with chronic kidney disease reduces the occurrence of renal death by 32% as compared with higher or unrestricted protein intake. The optimal level of protein intake cannot be confirmed from these studies.
 Administration of epidural local anaesthetics to patients undergoing laparotomy reduce gastrointestinal paralysis compared with systemic or epidural opioids, with comparable postoperative pain relief. Addition of opioid to epidural local anaesthetic may provide superior postoperative analgesia compared with epidural local anaesthetics alone. The effect of additional epidural opioid on gastrointestinal function is so far unsettled. Randomized, controlled trials comparing the effect of combinations of epidural local anaesthetic and opioid with epidural local anaesthetic alone on postoperative gastrointestinal function and pain are warranted.
 This update has demonstrated that whilst assisted hatching (AH) does appear to offer a significantly increased chance of achieving a clinical pregnancy, the extent to which it may do so only just reaches statistical significance. The 'take home' baby rate was still not proven to be increased by AH. The included trials provided insufficient data to investigate the impact of AH on several important outcomes. Most trials still failed to report on live birth rates.
 There is a paucity of randomised studies relating to the use of progestogens and of oestrogens and progestogens in combination in the treatment of irregular menstrual bleeding associated with anovulation. There is no consensus about which regimens are most effective.  Further research is needed to establish the role of these hormonal treatments in the management of this common gynaecological problem.
 There is insufficient evidence to recommend the use of nerve interruption in the management of dysmenorrhoea, regardless of cause. Future methodologically sound and sufficiently powered RCTs should be undertaken.
 There is insufficient evidence to support the routine practice of hydrotubation or second‐look laparoscopy following female pelvic reproductive surgery. The studies on which this conclusion is based were either of poor quality or underpowered. These interventions should be performed in the context of a good quality, adequately powered randomised controlled trial. Postoperative hydrotubation with fluid containing antibiotic may offer benefit over hydrotubation fluid without antibiotic following tubal surgery. A randomised controlled trial of postoperative hydrotubation with antibiotic‐containing fluid versus no hydrotubation for improving fertility following tubal surgery is justified.
 Trials comparing TNP with alternative treatments for chronic wounds have methodological flaws and data do demonstrate a beneficial effect of TNP on wound healing however more, better quality research is needed.
 IPC may increase healing compared with no compression, but it is not clear whether it increases healing when added to treatment with bandages, or if it can be used instead of compression bandages. Rapid IPC was better than slow IPC in one trial. Further trials are required to determine whether IPC increases the healing of venous leg ulcers when used in modern practice where compression therapy is widely used.
 Given the modest effect on seizure frequency and significant withdrawal rate it is unlikely that remacemide will be further developed as an antiepileptic drug.
 This update adds seven more trials to the original review, which contained four trials. At every dose analysed, levetiracetam significantly reduced focal seizure frequency relative to placebo. This indicates that levetiracetam can significantly reduce focal seizure frequency when it is used as an add‐on treatment for both adults and children with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. As there was evidence of significant levels of statistical heterogeneity within this positive effect it is difficult to be precise about the relative magnitude of the effect. At a dose of 2000 mg, levetiracetam may be expected to be 3.9 times more effective than placebo; with 30% of adults being responders at this dose. At a dose of 60 mg/kg/day, levetiracetam may be expected to be 0.9 times more effective than placebo; with 25% of children being responders at this dose. When dose was ignored, children were better responders than adults by around 4% to 13%. The results grossly suggest that one child or adult may respond to levetiracetam for every four or five children or adults, respectively, that have received levetiracetam rather than placebo. The drug seems to be well tolerated in both adults and children although non‐specific changes in behaviour may be experienced in as high as 20% of children. This aspect of the adverse‐effect profile of levetiracetam was analysed crudely and requires further investigation and validation. It seems reasonable to continue the use of levetiracetam in both adults and children with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. The results cannot be used to confirm longer‐term or monotherapy effects of levetiracetam or its effects on generalised seizures. The conclusions are largely unchanged from those in the original review. The most significant contribution of this update is the addition of paediatric data into the analysis.
 There is evidence to support waiting for at least two or more seizure free years before discontinuing AEDs in children, particularly if individuals have an abnormal EEG and partial seizures. There is insufficient evidence to establish when to withdraw AEDs in children with generalized seizures. There is no evidence to guide the timing of withdrawal of AEDs in seizure free adults. Further blinded randomized controlled trials are needed to identify the optimal timing of AED withdrawal and risk factors predictive of relapse.
 Our review update included data from four new randomised studies of the ketogenic diet. Although none were blinded, some were of good quality. These studies suggest that in children, the ketogenic diet results in short to medium term benefits in seizure control, the effects of which are comparable to modern antiepileptic drugs. However, one study of long term outcome reports a high attrition rate for the diet. This would suggest that many children find the diet difficult to tolerate. The main reasons for drop‐outs in the included studies included gastrointestinal side effects and dislike for the diet.We found just three studies on the use of the diet in adults and none of these were randomised. There has been less research involving other diets. We found one randomised study of reasonable quality of the Atkins diet. This study showed similar benefits in seizure control with a less restrictive diet.For those with medically intractable epilepsy or those in whom surgery is unsuitable, a ketogenic diet could improve seizure control, but tolerability is poor. One observational study suggested that the Atkins diet may have a similar effect on seizure control, but this requires more investigation.
